 27249369   Zhu F et al (2016) "Sequence Evolution and Expression of the Androgen Receptor and Other Pathway-Related Genes in a Unisexual Fish, the Amazon Molly, Poecilia formosa, and Its Bisexual Ancestors." PLoS One 11(6), e0156209

The all-female Amazon molly (Poecilia formosa) originated from a single
hybridization of two bisexual ancestors, Atlantic molly (Poecilia mexicana)
and sailfin molly (Poecilia latipinna). As a gynogenetic species, the
Amazon molly needs to copulate with a heterospecific male, but the
genetic information of the  sperm-donor does not contribute to the
next generation, as the sperm only acts as the trigger for the diploid
eggs' embryogenesis. Here, we study the sequence evolution and gene
expression of the duplicated genes coding for androgen receptors (ars)
and other pathway-related genes, i.e., the estrogen receptors (ers)
and cytochrome P450, family19, subfamily A, aromatase genes (cyp19as),
in the Amazon molly, in comparison to its bisexual ancestors. Mollies
possess-as most other teleost fish-two copies of the ar, er, and cyp19a
genes, i.e., aralpha/arbeta, eralpha/erbeta1, and cyp19a1 (also referred
as cyp19a1a)/cyp19a2  (also referred to as cyp19a1b), respectively.
Non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) among the ancestral
bisexual species were generally predicted not to alter protein function.
Some derived substitutions in the P. mexicana and one in P. formosa
are predicted to impact protein function. We also  describe the gene
expression pattern of the ars and pathway-related genes in various
tissues (i.e., brain, gill, and ovary) and provide SNP markers for
allele specific expression research. As a general tendency, the levels
of gene expression were lowest in gill and highest in ovarian tissues,
while expression levels in the brain were intermediate in most cases.
Expression levels in P. formosa were conserved where expression did
not differ between the two bisexual ancestors. In those cases where
gene expression levels significantly differed between the bisexual
species, P. formosa expression was always comparable to the  higher
expression level among the two ancestors. Interestingly, erbeta1 was
expressed neither in brain nor in gill in the analyzed three molly
species, which implies a more important role of eralpha in the estradiol
synthesis pathway in these tissues. Furthermore, our data suggest that
interactions of steroid-signaling pathway genes differ across tissues,
in particular the interactions of ars and cyp19as.

 27247144   Wu Y et al (2016) "Quantitative proteomics analysis of the liver reveals immune regulation and lipid metabolism dysregulation in a mouse model of depression." Behav Brain Res

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a highly prevalent and debilitating
mental illness with substantial impairments in quality of life and
functioning. However, the pathophysiology of major depression remains
poorly understood. Combining the  brain and body should provide a comprehensive
understanding of the etiology of MDD. As the largest internal organ
of the human body, the liver has an important  function, yet no proteomic
study has assessed liver protein expression in a preclinical model
of depression. Using the chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse
model of depression, differential protein expression between CUMS and
control (CON) mice was examined in the liver proteome using isobaric
tag for  relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) coupled with tandem
mass spectrometry. More than 4000 proteins were identified and 66 most
significantly differentiated  proteins were used for further bioinformatic
analysis. According to the ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA), we found
that proteins related to the inflammation response, immune regulation,
lipid metabolism and NFkappaB signaling network were altered by CUMS.
Moreover, four proteins closely associated with these processes, hemopexin,
haptoglobin, cytochrome P450 2A4 (CYP2A4) and bile salt sulfotransferase
1 (SULT2A1), were validated by western blotting. In conclusion,  we
report, for the first time, the liver protein expression profile in
the CUMS mouse model of depression. Our findings provide novel insight
(liver-brain axis)  into the multifaceted mechanisms of major depressive
disorder.

 27246748   Lim DW et al (2016) "Amomum cardamomum L. ethyl acetate fraction protects against carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury via an antioxidant mechanism in rats." BMC Complement Altern Med 16(1), 155

BACKGROUND: Medicinal herb-derived drug development has become important
in the relief of liver pathology. Amomun cardamomum is traditionally
used therapeutically in Korea to treat various human ailments including
dyspepsia, hiccupping, and vomiting. We investigated to assess the
protective effect of A. cardamomum on carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced
liver damage through antioxidant activity in hepatic tissues of Sprague-Dawley
rats. METHODS: Antioxidant properties of different fractions from A.
cardamomum from ethanol extracts were evaluated by an in vitro free
radical scavenging systems. The protective effect of the ethyl acetate
fraction from A. cardamomum (EAAC) against CCl4-induced cytotoxicity
was determined by a cell viability assay using HepG2 hepatocarcinoma
cells. In vivo study, the influence of EAAC concentrations of 100 and
200 mg/kg following CCl4-induced hepatic injury was assessed. Serum
levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), glutamic pyruvic
transaminase (GPT), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were determined,
as was lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde, MDA). Effect of EAAC on
liver detoxification enzymes including  superoxide dismutase (SOD),
total glutathione (GSH), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity
was measured in rat liver homogenates. Liver cytochrome P450 (CYP2E1)
expression level was determined by quantification of mRNA. RESULTS:
Phytochemical analysis of A. cardamomum indicated that EAAC was enriched
in total polyphenol and total flavonoid. Most of the tannins were confined
to the hexane fraction. Hepatoprotective properties of EAAC were evident,
with significantly reduced serum levels of GOT, GPT, and ALP compared
with the control group. Improved hepatic antioxidant status was evident
by increased SOD, GSH, and GST enzymes in rat liver tissue. Liver lipid
peroxidation induced by CCl4 was apparent by increased intracellular
MDA level. EAAC suppressed lipid peroxidation as evidenced by the significant
decrease in MDA production. Expression of CYP2E1 was also significantly
decreased at the higher concentration of EAAC, indicating the hepatoprotective
efficacy of EAAC on acute  liver damage. CONCLUSION: These results
indicated that EAAC has a significant hepatoprotective activity on
CCl4-induced acute hepatic injury in rats, which might be derived from
its antioxidant properties and CYP2E1 downregulation.

 27246733   Hsieh CH et al (2016) "Expanding the substrate scope and reactivity of cytochrome P450 OleT." Biochem Biophys Res Commun

The efficient hydrogen peroxide-dependent hydroxylation and epoxidation
of hydrocarbons is catalysed by a P450 fatty acid decarboxylase (OleT)
active-site variant. The introduction of an acidic functionality in
the protein framework circumvents the necessity for a carboxylate that
is typically provided by the substrate for efficient H2O2 heterolysis.
Spectroscopic and turnover studies show that the mutation eliminates
the binding and metabolism of prototypical fatty acid substrates, but
permits the oxidation of a broad range of inert hydrocarbon  substrates.

 27245908   Snider NT et al (2016) "Assay of Endocannabinoid Oxidation by Cytochrome P450." Methods Mol Biol 1412, 227-236

Cytochrome P450 enzymes are a large family of heme-containing proteins
that have  important functions in the biotransformation of xenobiotics,
including pharmacologic and environmental agents, as well as of endogenously
produced chemicals with broad structural and functional diversity.
Anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) are substrates for P450s
expressed in multiple tissues, leading to the production of a diverse
set of mono- and di-oxygenated metabolites. This chapter describes
tools and methods that have been used to identify major endocannabinoid-metabolizing
P450s and their corresponding products, by using subcellular tissue
fractions, cultured cells, and purified recombinant enzymes in a reconstituted
system.

 27245167   Hassan MH et al (2016) "Antifibrotic effect of meloxicam in rat liver: role of nuclear factor kappa B, proinflammatory cytokines, and oxidative stress." Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol

This study was aimed at investigating the antifibrotic effect of meloxicam
in CCl4-induced liver fibrosis and elucidating its underlying mechanism.
Forty male  rats were equally randomized for 8-week treatment with
corn oil (negative control), CCl4 (to induce liver fibrosis), and/or
meloxicam. Meloxicam effectively ameliorated the CCl4-induced alterations
in liver histology, liver weight to body weight ratio, liver functions,
and serum markers for liver fibrosis (hyaluronic acid, laminin, and
PCIII). Meloxicam significantly abrogated CCl4-induced elevation of
messenger RNA (mRNA) expressions for collagen I and alpha smooth muscle
actin (alpha-SMA) and hepatic contents of hydroxyproline, transforming
growth factor beta (TGF-beta), and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteases
(TIMP-1). Meloxicam mitigated CCl4-induced elevation in hepatic  levels
of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), tumor necrosis factor alpha
(TNF-alpha), total nitric oxide (NO), interleukin-l beta (IL 1beta),
and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Meloxicam modulated CCl4-induced disturbance
of liver cytochrome P450 subfamily 2E1 (CYP2E1) and glutathione-S-transferase
(GST). The attenuation of meloxicam to liver fibrosis was associated
with suppression of oxidative stress via reduction of lipid peroxides
along with induction of reduced glutathione content and enhancement
of superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase activities.
This study provides an evidence for antifibrotic effect of meloxicam
against CCl4-induced liver fibrosis in rat. The  antifibrotic mechanism
of meloxicam could be through decreasing NF-kappaB level and subsequent
proinflammatory cytokine production (TNF-alpha, NO, IL-1 beta, and
PGE2) and, hence, collagen deposition through inhibition of TIMP-1
and TGF-beta.  Abrogation of oxidative stress and modulation of liver-metabolizing
enzymes (CYP2E1 and GST) were also involved.

 27243976   Banerjee A et al (2016) "Functional and Structural Analyses of CYP1B1 Variants Linked to Congenital and Adult-Onset Glaucoma to Investigate the Molecular Basis of These Diseases." PLoS One 11(5), e0156252

Glaucoma, the leading cause of irreversible blindness, appears in various
forms.  Mutations in CYP1B1 result in primary congenital glaucoma (PCG)
by an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance while it acts as a modifier
locus for primary open  angle glaucoma (POAG). We investigated the
molecular basis of the variable phenotypes resulting from the defects
in CYP1B1 by using subclones of 23 CYP1B1 mutants reported in glaucoma
patients, in a cell based system by measuring the dual activity of
the enzyme to metabolize both retinol and 17beta-estradiol. Most variants
linked to POAG showed low steroid metabolism while null or very high
retinol metabolism was observed in variants identified in PCG. We examined
the translational turnover rates of mutant proteins after the addition
of cycloheximide and observed that the levels of enzyme activity mostly
corroborated the translational turnover rate. We performed extensive
normal mode analysis and  molecular-dynamics-simulations-based structural
analyses and observed significant variation of fluctuation in certain
segmental parts of the mutant proteins, especially at the B-C and F-G
loops, which were previously shown to affect the dynamic behavior and
ligand entry/exit properties of the cytochrome P450 family of proteins.
Our molecular study corroborates the structural analysis, and suggests
that the pathologic state of the carrier of CYP1B1 mutations is determined
by the allelic state of the gene. To our knowledge, this is the first
attempt to dissect biological activities of CYP1B1 for correlation
with congenital and adult onset glaucomas.

 27243445   Tanvir S et al (2016) "Effects of 3G cell phone exposure on the structure and function of the human cytochrome P450 reductase." Bioelectrochemistry 111, 62-69

Cell phones increase exposure to radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic
fields (EMFs). Whether EMFs exert specific effects on biological systems
remains debatable. This study investigated the effect of cell phone
exposure on the structure and function of human NADPH-cytochrome P450
reductase (CPR). CPR plays  a key role in the electron transfer to
cytochrome P450, which takes part in a wide range of oxidative metabolic
reactions in various organisms from microbes to humans. Human CPR was
exposed for 60min to 1966-MHz RF inside a transverse electromagnetic
cell (TEM-cell) placed in an incubator. The specific absorption rate
(SAR) was 5W.kg-1. Conformation changes have been detected through
fluorescent spectroscopy of flavin and tryptophan residues, and investigated
through circular dichroism, dynamic light scattering and microelectrophoresis.
These showed that CPR was narrowed. By using cytochrome C reductase
activity to assess the electron flux through the CPR, the Michaelis
Menten constant (Km) and  the maximum initial velocity (Vmax) decreased
by 22% as compared with controls. This change was due to small changes
in the tertiary and secondary structures of  the protein at 37 degrees
C. The relevance of these findings to an actual RF exposure scenario
demands further biochemical and in-vivo confirmation.

 27242873   Ma CH et al (2016) "Candidate Genes Involved in the Biosynthesis of Triterpenoid Saponins in Platycodon grandiflorum Identified by Transcriptome Analysis." Front Plant Sci 7, 673

BACKGROUND: Platycodon grandiflorum is the only species in the genus
Platycodon of the family Campanulaceae, which has been traditionally
used as a medicinal plant for its lung-heat-clearing, antitussive,
and expectorant properties in China, Japanese, and Korean. Oleanane-type
triterpenoid saponins were the main chemical components of P. grandiflorum
and platycodin D was the abundant and main bioactive component, but
little is known about their biosynthesis in plants. Hence, P. grandiflorum
is an ideal medicinal plant for studying the biosynthesis  of Oleanane-type
saponins. In addition, the genomic information of this important herbal
plant is unavailable. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A total of 58,580,566 clean
reads were obtained, which were assembled into 34,053 unigenes, with
an average length of 936 bp and N50 of 1,661 bp by analyzing the transcriptome
data of P. grandiflorum. Among these 34,053 unigenes, 22,409 unigenes
(65.80%) were annotated based on the information available from public
databases, including Nr, NCBI, Swiss-Prot, KOG, and KEGG. Furthermore,
21 candidate cytochrome P450 genes  and 17 candidate UDP-glycosyltransferase
genes most likely involved in triterpenoid saponins biosynthesis pathway
were discovered from the transcriptome sequencing of P. grandiflorum.
In addition, 10,626 SSRs were identified based on  the transcriptome
data, which would provide abundant candidates of molecular markers
for genetic diversity and genetic map for this medicinal plant. CONCLUSION:
The genomic data obtained from P. grandiflorum, especially the identification
of putative genes involved in triterpenoid saponins biosynthesis pathway,
will facilitate our understanding of the biosynthesis of triterpenoid
saponins at molecular level.

 27242531   Samokhvalov V et al (2016) "SIRT Is Required for EDP-Mediated Protective Responses toward Hypoxia-Reoxygenation Injury in Cardiac Cells." Front Pharmacol 7, 124

Hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R) injury is known to cause extensive injury
to cardiac  myocardium promoting development of cardiac dysfunction.
Despite the vast number  of studies dedicated to studying H/R injury,
the molecular mechanisms behind it are multiple, complex, and remain
very poorly understood, which makes development of novel pharmacological
agents challenging. Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n3) is an n - 3
polyunsaturated fatty acid obtained from dietary sources, which produces
numerous effects including regulation of cell survival and death mechanisms.
The beneficial effects of DHA toward the cardiovascular system are
well documented but the relative role of DHA or one of its more potent
metabolites is unresolved. Emerging evidence indicates that cytochrome
P450 (CYP) epoxygenase metabolites of DHA, epoxydocosapentaenoic acids
(EDPs), have more potent biological activity than DHA in cardiac cells.
In this study we examined whether EDPs protect HL-1 cardiac cells from
H/R injury. Our observations demonstrate that treatment with 19,20-EDP
protected HL-1 cardiac cells from H/R damage through a mechanism(s)
protecting and enhancing mitochondrial quality. EDP treatment increased
the relative rates of mitobiogenesis and mitochondrial respiration
in control and H/R exposed cardiac cells. The observed EDP protective
response toward H/R injury involved SIRT1-dependent pathways.

 27241061   Reis-Pardal J et al (2016) "Comparing cytochrome P450 pharmacogenetic information available on United States  drug labels and European Union Summaries of Product Characteristics." Pharmacogenomics J

Regulatory agencies are increasing the pharmacogenomic information
in their official drug labeling. However, despite the importance of
regulatory harmonization, this implementation may not be running in
parallel among major agencies. Comparing labeling of medicines approved
by different agencies may identify gaps to solve. Our study compared
the cytochrome P450 pharmacogenetic information included in the United
States (US) Food and Drug Administration (FDA) drug labels and European
Union (EU) Summaries of Product Characteristics (SmPCs). US labels
presented significantly more specific pharmacogenetic subheadings (51
vs 26%), more prevalence and pharmacokinetic data for each metabolic
phenotype (59 vs 25% and 82 vs 48%, respectively) and more applicable
information about dose modifications required (25 vs 5%). Approximately
75% of the US labels evaluated scored higher on the overall quality
than the analogous EU SmPCs, and this difference was not associated
with the time since the EU SmPCs' last review. To enhance harmonization,
regulatory agencies should simultaneously introduce the pharmacogenetic
information in their drug labeling.The Pharmacogenomics Journal advance
online publication, 31 May 2016; doi:10.1038/tpj.2016.40.

 27241012   Scott JG (2016) "Evolution of resistance to pyrethroid insecticides in Musca domestica." Pest Manag Sci

BACKGROUND: House flies, Musca domestica L., are a significant pest
because of the numerous diseases they transmit. Control of house fly
populations, particularly at animal production facilities, is frequently
done using pyrethroid insecticides which kill insects by prolonging
the open time of the voltage sensitive sodium channel (VSSC). RESULTS:
House flies have evolved resistance to  pyrethroids due to mutations
in Vssc and by cytochrome P450-mediated detoxification. Three Vssc
mutations are known: kdr (L1014F), kdr-his (L1014H) and super-kdr (M918T+L1014F).
Generally, the levels of resistance conferred by these mutations are
kdr-his < kdr < super-kdr, but this pattern does not hold for multi-halogenated
benzyl pyrethroids for which super-kdr confers less resistance  than
kdr. P450-mediated resistance can result from overexpression of CYP6D1
or to another P450 (unidentified) whose overexpression is linked to
autosomes II or V.  CONCLUSIONS: The initial use of field-stable pyrethroids
resulted in different patterns of evolution across the globe, but with
time these mutations have become more widespread in their distribution.
What is known about the fitness costs of the resistance alleles in
the absence of insecticide is discussed, particularly with respect
to the current and future utility of pyrethroid insecticides.

 27240349   Cong L et al (2016) "Transcriptome and Difference Analysis of Fenpropathrin Resistant Predatory Mite,  Neoseiulus barkeri (Hughes)." Int J Mol Sci 17(6)

Several fenpropathrin-resistant predatory mites have been reported.
However, the  molecular mechanism of the resistance remains unknown.
In the present study, the  Neoseiulus barkeri (N. barkeri) transcriptome
was generated using the Illumina sequencing platform, 34,211 unigenes
were obtained, and 15,987 were manually annotated. After manual annotation,
attentions were attracted to resistance-related genes, such as voltage-gated
sodium channel (VGSC), cytochrome P450s (P450s), and glutathione S-transferases
(GSTs). A polymorphism analysis detected two point mutations (E1233G
and S1282G) in the linker region between VGSC domain II and III. In
addition, 43 putative P450 genes and 10 putative GST genes were identified
from the transcriptome. Among them, two P450 genes, NbCYP4EV2 and NbCYP4EZ1,
and four GST genes, NbGSTd01, NbGSTd02, NbGSTd03 and NbGSTm03, were
remarkably overexpressed 3.64-46.69-fold in the fenpropathrin resistant
strain compared to that in the susceptible strain. These results suggest
that fenpropathrin resistance in N. barkeri is a complex biological
process involving many genetic changes and provide new insight into
the N. barkeri resistance mechanism.

 27238232   Milhim M et al (2016) "A Novel NADPH-dependent flavoprotein reductase from Bacillus megaterium acts as an efficient cytochrome P450 reductase." J Biotechnol

Cytochromes P450 (P450s) require electron transfer partners to catalyze
substrate conversions. With regard to biotechnological approaches,
the elucidation of novel electron transfer proteins is of special interest,
as they can influence the enzymatic activity and specificity of the
P450s. In the current work we present the identification and characterization
of a novel soluble NADPH-dependent diflavin reductase from Bacillus
megaterium with activity towards a bacterial (CYP106A1) and a microsomal
(CYP21A2) P450 and, therefore, we referred to it as B. megaterium cytochrome
P450 reductase (BmCPR). Sequence analysis of the protein revealed besides
the conserved FMN-, FAD- and NADPH-binding motifs, the presence  of
negatively charged cluster, which is thought to represent the interaction
domain with P450s and/or cytochrome c. BmCPR was expressed and purified
to homogeneity in E. coli. The purified BmCPR exhibited a characteristic
diflavin reductase spectrum, and showed a cytochrome c reducing activity.
Furthermore, in  an in vitro reconstituted system, the BmCPR was able
to support the hydroxylation of testosterone and progesterone with
CYP106A1 and CYP21A2, respectively. Moreover, in view of the biotechnological
application, the BmCPR is very promising, as it could be successfully
utilized to establish CYP106A1- and CYP21A2-based whole-cell biotransformation
systems, which yielded 0.3g/L hydroxy-testosterone products within
8h and 0.16g/L 21-hydroxyprogesterone within 6h, respectively. In conclusion,
the BmCPR reported herein owns a great potential for further applications
and studies and should be taken into consideration for bacterial and/or
microsomal CYP-dependent bioconversions.

 27236320   Hohmann N et al (2016) "Dose-Dependent Bioavailability and CYP3A Inhibition Contribute to Non-Linear Pharmacokinetics of Voriconazole." Clin Pharmacokinet

Voriconazole is both a substrate and a potent inhibitor of cytochrome
P450 (CYP)  3A. It has a high bioavailability and non-linear pharmacokinetics.
We investigated the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of 50 mg and 400
mg doses of intravenous and oral voriconazole in 14 healthy volunteers.
Concurrently, we determined systemic and presystemic CYP3A activity
with microdosed midazolam. Bioavailability of voriconazole 50 mg was
39 % compared with 86 % of the 400 mg dose. Voriconazole area under
the concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity (AUCinfinity)
was 416 and 16,700 h.ng/mL for the 50 and 400 mg oral doses, respectively,
and 1110 and 19,760 h.ng/mL for the 50 and 400 mg intravenous doses,
respectively. Midazolam metabolism was dose-dependently inhibited by
voriconazole. Dose-dependent autoinhibition of CYP3A-dependent first-pass
metabolism and systemic metabolism is a possible explanation for the
dose-dependent bioavailability and elimination of voriconazole, either
as additional mechanism to, or instead of, saturation of presystemic
metabolism. Higher bioavailability and non-linear pharmacokinetics
are expected to be a common property of drugs that are substrates and
inhibitors of CYP3A, e.g. clarithromycin.

 27236227   Loh SC et al (2016) "Identification of differentially expressed genes and signalling pathways in bark  of Hevea brasiliensis seedlings associated with secondary laticifer differentiation using gene expression microarray." Plant Physiol Biochem 107, 45-55

The natural rubber of Para rubber tree, Hevea brasiliensis, is the
main crop involved in industrial rubber production due to its superior
quality. The Hevea bark is commercially exploited to obtain latex,
which is produced from the articulated secondary laticifer. The laticifer
is well defined in the aspect of morphology; however, only some genes
associated with its development have been reported. We successfully
induced secondary laticifer in the jasmonic acid (JA)-treated and linolenic
acid (LA)-treated Hevea bark but secondary laticifer is not observed
in the ethephon (ET)-treated and untreated Hevea bark. In this study,
we analysed 27,195 gene models using NimbleGen microarrays based on
the Hevea draft genome. 491 filtered differentially expressed (FDE)
transcripts that  are common to both JA- and LA-treated bark samples
but not ET-treated bark samples were identified. In the Eukaryotic
Orthologous Group (KOG) analysis, 491  FDE transcripts belong to different
functional categories that reflect the diverse processes and pathways
involved in laticifer differentiation. In the Kyoto Encyclopedia of
Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and KOG analysis, the profile of the FDE transcripts
suggest that JA- and LA-treated bark samples have a sufficient molecular
basis for secondary laticifer differentiation, especially regarding
secondary metabolites metabolism. FDE genes in this category are from
the cytochrome (CYP) P450 family, ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter
family,  short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) family, or cinnamyl
alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) family. The data includes many genes involved
in cell division, cell wall synthesis, and cell differentiation. The
most abundant transcript in FDE list was SDR65C, reflecting its importance
in laticifer differentiation. Using the Basic Local Alignment Search
Tool (BLAST) as part of annotation and functional prediction, several
characterised as well as uncharacterized transcription factors and
genes were found in the dataset. Hence, the further characterization
of these genes is necessary to unveil their role in  laticifer differentiation.
This study provides a platform for the further characterization and
identification of the key genes involved in secondary laticifer differentiation.

 27235555   Dinu D et al (2016) "Mechanistic role of cytochrome P450 (CYP)1B1 in oxygen-mediated toxicity in pulmonary cells: A novel target for prevention of hyperoxic lung injury." Biochem Biophys Res Commun

Supplemental oxygen, which is routinely administered to preterm infants
with pulmonary insufficiency, contributes to bronchopulmonary dysplasia
(BPD) in these infants. Hyperoxia also contributes to the development
of acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress syndrome
(ARDS) in adults. The mechanisms of oxygen-mediated pulmonary toxicity
are not completely understood. Recent studies  have suggested an important
role for cytochrome P450 (CYP)1A1/1A2 in the protection against hyperoxic
lung injury. The role of CYP1B1 in oxygen-mediated pulmonary toxicity
has not been studied. In this investigation, we tested the hypothesis
that CYP1B1 plays a mechanistic role in oxygen toxicity in pulmonary
cells in vitro. In human bronchial epithelial cell line BEAS-2B, hyperoxic
treatment for 1-3 days led to decreased cell viability by about 50-80%.
Hyperoxic cytotoxicity was accompanied by an increase in levels of
reactive oxygen species  (ROS) by up to 110%, and an increase of TUNEL-positive
cells by up to 4.8-fold. Western blot analysis showed hyperoxia to
significantly down-regulated CYP1B1 protein level. Also, there was
a decrease of CYP1B1 mRNA by up to 38% and Cyp1b1  promoter activity
by up to 65%. On the other hand, CYP1B1 siRNA appeared to rescue the
cell viability under hyperoxia stress, and overexpression of CYP1B1
significantly attenuated hyperoxic cytotoxicity after 48 h of incubation.
In immortalized lung endothelial cells derived from Cyp1b1-null and
wild-type mice,  hyperoxia increased caspase 3/7 activities in a time-dependent
manner, but endothelial cells lacking the Cyp1b1 gene showed significantly
decreased caspase  3/7 activities after 48 and 72 h of incubation,
implying that CYP1B1 might promote apoptosis in wild type lung endothelial
cells under hyperoxic stress. In  conclusion, our results support the
hypothesis that CYP1B1 plays a mechanistic role in pulmonary oxygen
toxicity, and CYP1B1-mediated apoptosis could be one of  the mechanisms
of oxygen toxicity. Thus, CYP1B1 could be a novel target for preventative
and/or therapeutic interventions against BPD in infants and ALI/ARDS
in adults.

 27234251   Zhang J et al (2016) "Effects of Fluoride on Expression of P450, CREM and ACT Proteins in Rat Testes." Biol Trace Elem Res

Fluoride (F) is an essential trace element that humans and animals
ingest from water, air, and fluoride-containing products; however,
excessive fluoride absorption can damage a variety of organs and tissues,
including the male reproductive system. Our previous studies found
that fluoride exposure lowered sperm quality and interfered with spermatogenesis;
however, the exact mechanism remained unclear. Proteins cytochrome
P450 (P450), cAMP-responsive element modulator (CREM), and activator
of CREM in testis (ACT) play the key roles in spermatogenesis and sperm
motility. To investigate whether fluoride affects the expression of
P450, CREM, and ACT, we used immunohistochemical techniques to determine
expression levels of these proteins in testes of rats administered
100  mg NaF/L for 2 weeks via drinking water. The results showed that
P450 expression  was decreased while CREM and ACT expression was increased
in the fluoride group,  compared to the control. These data suggest
that fluoride can impair male reproduction by affecting expression
of P450, CREM, and ACT in the testes.

 27234138   Duan Y et al (2016) "Semi-rational engineering of cytochrome CYP153A from Marinobacter aquaeolei for improved omega-hydroxylation activity towards oleic acid." Appl Microbiol Biotechnol

omega-Hydroxy oleic acid is an important intermediate for the synthesis
of certain polyesters and polyamides. In this study, a functional CYP153A/putidaredoxin
(Pdx)/putidaredoxin reductase (Pdr) hybrid system was engineered for
improved omega-hydroxylation activity towards oleic acid. By the combination
of site-directed saturation mutagenesis (SDSM) and iterative saturation
mutagenesis (ISM), a best mutant (Variant II) was obtained with mutations
at two sites (S120 and P165) at the Pdx interaction interface with
CYP153A, and one site (S453) in the substrate binding pocket. The in
vitro-reconstituted activity of Variant II with purified Pdx and Pdr
was 2.7-fold that of the template, while the whole cell transformation
activity was 2.0-fold that of the template. A 96-well format-based
screening scheme for CYP153A was also developed, which should be useful
for engineering of other P450s with low activity. Kinetic analyses
indicated that the activity improvement for CYP153A variants largely
resulted from enhanced electron transfer. This further demonstrates
the importance of the electron transfer between P450s and the non-native
redox partners for the overall performance of hybrid P450 systems.

 27233747   Yi X et al (2016) "Interaction of CYP2C19, P2Y12, and GPIIIa Variants Associates With Efficacy of Clopidogrel and Adverse Events on Patients With Ischemic Stroke." Clin Appl Thromb Hemost

OBJECTIVE: Clopidogrel is a clinically important oral antiplatelet
agent for the  treatment or prevention of cerebrovascular disease.
However, different individuals have different sensitivities to clopidogrel.
This study assessed variants of different genes for association with
response to clopidogrel, clinical outcome, and side effects in patients
with ischemic stroke (IS). METHODS: We consecutively enrolled 375 patients
with IS after they received clopidogrel therapy, and venous blood samples
were subjected to genotyping allelic variants of genes modulating clopidogrel
absorption (ATP binding cassette subfamily B1, ABCB1), metabolic activation
(cytochrome P450[CYP] 3A and CYP2C19), and biologic activity (platelet
membrane receptor [P2Y12, P2Y1)], and glycoprotein IIIa [GPIIIa]) and
statistically analyzing their interactions with clopidogrel sensitivity
(CS) and adverse events, risk of IS recurrence, myocardial infarction,
and death during 6 months of follow-up. RESULTS: Adverse events occurred
in 37 patients (31 had IS recurrence, 4 died, and 2 had myocardial
infarction) during the first 6 months of follow-up. Single locus analysis
showed that only the CYP2C19*2(rs4244285) variant was independently
associated with CS and risk of adverse events after adjusting covariates.
However, there was significant gene-gene interaction among CYP2C19*2(rs4244285),
P2Y12(rs16863323), and GPIIIa (rs2317676) analyzed by generalized multifactor
dimensionality reduction methods. The rate of adverse events among
patients with  the 3-loci interaction was 2.82 times the rate among
those with no interaction (95% confidence interval: 2.04-8.63). CONCLUSION:
Sensitivity of patients with IS to clopidogrel and clopidogrel-induced
adverse clinical events may be multifactorial but is not determined
by single gene polymorphisms.

 27233287   Brignac-Huber LM et al (2016) "Cytochrome P450 Organization and Function Are Modulated by Endoplasmic Reticulum  Phospholipid Heterogeneity." Drug Metab Dispos

Cytochrome P450s comprise a superfamily of proteins that catalyze numerous
monooxygenase reactions in animals, plants and bacteria. In eukaryotic
organisms, these proteins not only carry out reactions necessary for
the metabolism of endogenous compounds, but also are important in the
oxidation of exogenous drugs  and other foreign compounds. Eukaryotic
cytochrome P450 system proteins generally reside in membranes, primarily
the endoplasmic reticulum or the mitochondrial membrane. These membranes
provide a scaffold for the P450 system proteins that facilitate interactions
with their redox partners as well as other P450s. This review focuses
on the ability of specific lipid components to influence P450 activities,
as well as the role of the membrane in P450 function. These studies
have shown that P450s and NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase appear to
selectively associate with specific phospholipids, and that these lipid-protein
interactions  influence P450 activities. Finally, due to the heterogeneous
nature of the endoplasmic reticulum as well as other biological membranes,
the phospholipids are not arranged randomly, but associate to generate
lipid microdomains. Together, these characteristics can affect P450
function by (1) altering the conformation of the proteins, (2) influencing
the P450 interactions with their redox partners, and (3) affecting
the localization of the proteins into specific  membrane microdomains.

 27233123   Hatakeyama M et al (2016) "Heterologous expression of fungal cytochromes P450 (CYP5136A1 and CYP5136A3) from the white-rot basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium: Functionalization with cytochrome b5 in Escherichia coli." Enzyme Microb Technol 89, 7-14

Cytochromes P450 from the white-rot basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium,
CYP5136A1 and CYP5136A3, are capable of catalyzing oxygenation reactions
of a wide variety of exogenous compounds, implying their significant
roles in the metabolism of xenobiotics by the fungus. It is therefore
interesting to explore their biochemistry to better understand fungal
biology and to enable the use of fungal enzymes in the biotechnology
sector. In the present study, we developed heterologous expression
systems for CYP5136A1 and CYP5136A3 using the T7 RNA polymerase/promoter
system in Escherichia coli. Expression levels of recombinant  P450s
were dramatically improved by modifications and optimization of their
N-terminal amino acid sequences. A CYP5136A1 reaction system was reconstructed
in E. coli whole cells by coexpression of CYP5136A1 and a redox partner,
NADPH-dependent P450 reductase (CPR). The catalytic activity of CYP5136A1
was significantly increased when cytochrome b5 (Cyt-b5) was further
coexpressed with  CPR, indicating that Cyt-b5 supports electron transfer
reactions from NAD(P)H to  CYP5136A1. Notably, P450 reaction occurred
in E. coli cells that harbored CYP5136A1 and Cyt-b5 but not CPR, implying
that the reducing equivalents required for the P450 catalytic cycle
were transferred via a CPR-independent pathway. Such an "alternative"
electron transfer system in CYP5136A1 reaction was also demonstrated
using purified enzymes in vitro. The fungal P450 reaction system may
be associated with sophisticated electron transfer pathways.

 27233048   Vasiliadou IA et al (2016) "Biological removal of pharmaceutical compounds using white-rot fungi with concomitant FAME production of the residual biomass." J Environ Manage 180, 228-237

The efficiency of two white-rot fungi (WRF), Trametes versicolor and
Ganoderma lucidum, to eliminate thirteen pharmaceutical pollutants
with concomitant biodiesel production from the accumulating lipid content
after treatment, was examined. The removal efficiency was studied using
both individual and combined strains. The results of individual and
combined strains showed a total removal (100%) of diclofenac (DCF),
gemfibrozil (GFZ), ibuprofen (IBP), progesterone (PGT) and ranitidine
(RNT). Lower removals were achieved for 4-acetamidoantipyrin (AAA),
clofibric acid (ACF), atenolol (ATN), caffeine (CFN), carbamazepine
(CZP), hydrochlorothiazide (HCT), sulfamethoxazole (SMX) and sulpiride
(SPD), although the combination of both strains enhanced the system's
efficiency, with removals ranging from 15 to 41%. This increase of
the removal efficiency when combining both strains was attributed to
the interactions developed between them (i.e., competition). Results
from enzymatic and cytochrome P450 examination suggested that both
extracellular (laccase, MnP, LiP) and intracellular oxidation mechanisms
participate in the biological removal of pharmaceuticals. On the other
hand, the "green" potential of the fungal sludge generated during the
biological  removal process was assessed for biodiesel production by
means of one-step direct (in-situ) transformation. This process consists
of the simultaneous extraction and conversion of lipids contained in
the sludge by catalytic esterification/transesterification using a
robust acid heterogeneous Zr-SBA-15 catalyst. This catalytic system
provided conversions close to 80% of the saponifiable fraction (including
free fatty acids and glycerides) in the presence of high amount of
impurities. The overall weight FAME yield, based on the initial dried
mass, was close to 30% for both strains.

 27232632   Malayeri MR et al (2016) "Chemotherapeutic effect of Berberis integerrima hydroalcoholic extract on colon cancer development in the 1,2-dimethyl hydrazine rat model." Z Naturforsch C

The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of a Berberis
integerrima hydroalcoholic extract as a chemotherapeutic agent in colon
carcinogenesis in the rat induced by 1,2-dimethyl hydrazine (DMH).
Male Wistar rats were divided into five groups: a negative control
group without DMH treatment; a control group injected DMH (20 mg/kg
b.w); two groups receiving B. integerrima extract (50 and  100 mg/kg
b.w), concomitant with injected DMH, as chemotherapeutic groups; a
positive control group receiving 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) along with DMH.
The effects of the extracts were determined by assessment of hepatic
malondialdehyde  (MDA), glutathione (GSH), ferric reducing ability
of plasma (FRAP), and the activities of hepatic glutathione S-transferase
and cytochrome P450 (GST and CYP450). Additionally, colon tissues were
assessed for colonic beta-catenin and histopathological analysis. In
DMH-treated rats, the extracts partially normalized the levels of FRAP,
CYP450, beta-catenin, and GST. Likewise, formation of aberrant crypt
foci (ACF) in colon tissue of DMH-treated was reduced by the extracts.
Thus, the extracts possess chemotherapeutic activity against colon
carcinogenesis.

 27231904   He LX et al (2016) "Effects of Endobacterium (Stenotrophomonas maltophilia) on Pathogenesis-Related Gene Expression of Pine Wood Nematode (Bursaphelenchus xylophilus) and Pine Wilt  Disease." Int J Mol Sci 17(6)

Pine wilt disease (PWD) caused by the pine wood nematode (PWN), Bursaphelenchus
xylophilus, is responsible for devastating epidemics in pine trees
in Asia and Europe. Recent studies showed that bacteria carried by
the PWN might be involved  in PWD. However, the molecular mechanism
of the interaction between bacteria and  the PWN remained unclear.
Now that the whole genome of B. xylophilus (Bursaphelenchus xylophilus)
is published, transcriptome analysis is a unique method to study the
role played by bacteria in PWN. In this study, the transcriptome of
aseptic B. xylophilus, B. xylophilus treated with endobacterium  (Stenotrophomonas
maltophilia NSPmBx03) and fungus B. xylophilus were sequenced.  We
found that 61 genes were up-regulated and 830 were down-regulated in
B. xylophilus after treatment with the endobacterium; 178 genes were
up-regulated and 1122 were down-regulated in fungus B. xylophilus compared
with aseptic B. xylophilus. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of
Genes and Genomes analyses were used to study the significantly changed
biological functions and pathways for these differentially expressed
genes. Many pathogenesis-related genes, including glutathinone S-transferase,
pectate lyase, ATP-binding cassette transporter and cytochrome P450,
were up-regulated after B. xylophilus were treated with the endobacterium.
In addition, we found that bacteria enhanced the  virulence of PWN.
These findings indicate that endobacteria might play an important role
in the development and virulence of PWN and will improve our understanding
of the regulatory mechanisms involved in the interaction between bacteria
and the PWN.

 27231902   Lee CW et al (2016) "Crystal Structure of Cytochrome P450 (CYP105P2) from Streptomyces peucetius and Its Conformational Changes in Response to Substrate Binding." Int J Mol Sci 17(6)

Cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (CYP, EC 1.14.14.1) belong to a large
family of enzymes that catalyze the hydroxylation of various substrates.
Here, we present the crystal structure of CYP105P2 isolated from Streptomyces
peucetius ATCC27952  at a 2.1 A resolution. The structure shows the
presence of a pseudo-ligand molecule in the active site, which was
co-purified fortuitously and is presumed to be a biphenyl derivative.
Comparison with previously determined substrate-bound CYP structures
showed that binding of the ligand produces large and distinctive conformational
changes in alpha2-alpha3, alpha7-alpha9, and the C-terminal loop regions.
This structural flexibility confirms our previous observation that
CYP105P2 can accommodate a broad range of ligands. The structure complexed
with a pseudo-ligand provides the first molecular view of CYP105P2-ligand
interactions, and it indicates the involvement of hydrophobic residues
(Pro82, Ala181, Met187, Leu189, Leu193, and Ile236) in the interactions
between hydrophobic ligands and CYP105P2. These results provide useful
insights into the structural changes involved in the recognition of
different ligands by CYP105P2.

 27231827   Bhat IA et al (2016) "Molecular cloning, computational analysis and expression pattern of forkhead box  l2 (Foxl2) gene in catfish." Comput Biol Chem 64, 9-18

Foxl2 belongs to forkhead/HNF-3-related family of transcription factors
which is  involved in ovarian differentiation and development. In present
study, the Foxl2  mRNA was cloned from ovary of C. batrachus. The full
length cDNA sequence of the  Foxl2 was 1056bp which consists of 5'
(41bp) and 3' (106bp) non-coding regions, as well as a 909bp of open
reading frame (ORF) that encodes 302 amino acids. The  putative protein
was having the theoretical molecular weight (MW) of 34.018kD and a
calculated isoelectric point (pI) of 9.38. There were 11 serine (Ser),
5 threonine (Thr), and 5 tyrosine (Tyr) phosphorylation sites and 2
putative N-glycosylation sites on the predicted protein. The ligand
binding sites were predicted to be present on amino acids 42, 49, 50,
91, 92 and 95 respectively. The signal peptide analysis predicted that
C. batrachus Foxl2 is a non-secretory  protein. The hydropathy profile
of Foxl2 protein revealed that this protein is hydrophilic in nature.
Protein-protein interaction demonstrated that Foxl2 protein chiefly
interacts with cytochrome P450 protein family. The mRNA transcript
analysis of various tissues indicated that the C. batrachus Foxl2 mRNA
was more expressed in the brain, pituitary and ovary in female while,
the former  two tissues and testis showed low expression in male. This
study provides a basis for further structural and functional exploration
of the Foxl2 from C. batrachus, including its deduced protein and its
signal transduction function.

 27230024   Lu TQ et al (2016) "Regulation of Hydroxylation and Nitroreduction Pathways during Metabolism of the  Neonicotinoid Insecticide Imidacloprid by Pseudomonas putida." J Agric Food Chem

Imidacloprid (IMI) is mainly metabolized via nitroreduction and hydroxylation
pathways, which produce different metabolites that are toxic to mammals
and insects. However, regulation of IMI metabolic flux between nitroreduction
and hydroxylation pathways is still unclear. In this study, Pseudomonas
putida was found to metabolize IMI to 5-hydroxy and nitroso IMI and
was therefore used for investigating the regulation of IMI metabolic
flux. The cell growth time, co-substrate, dissolved oxygen concentration,
and pH showed significant effect on IMI degradation and nitroso and
5-hydroxy IMI formation. Gene cloning and overexpression in Escherichia
coli proved that P. putida KT2440 aldehyde oxidase  mediated IMI nitroreduction
to nitroso IMI, while cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (CYP) failed to
improve IMI hydroxylation. Moreover, E. coli cells without CYP could
hydroxylate IMI, demonstrating the role of a non-CYP enzyme in IMI
hydroxylation. Thus, the present study helps to further understand
the environmental fate of IMI and its underlying mechanism.

 27230023   Lu J et al (2016) "Enhanced light-driven catalytic performance of cytochrome P450 confined in macroporous silica." Chem Commun (Camb)

A light-driven approach combined with a macroporous reactor for the
enzymatic biocatalytic reaction has been developed by confining the
enzyme/photosensitizer  nanohybrids in a macroporous material, which
exhibits high bio-conversion efficiency due to the fast diffusion and
collision between the enzyme/photosensitizer nanohybrid and the substrate
in the reactor.

 27228617   Mao XL et al (2016) "[Resistance risk, cross-resistance and biochemical resistance mechanism of Laodelphax striatellus to buprofezin]." Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao 27(1), 255-262

In order to investigate the resistance development law and biochemical
resistance mechanism of Laodelphax striatellus to buprofezin, spraying
rice seedlings was used to continuously screen resistant strains of
L. striatellus and dipping rice  seedlings was applied to determine
the toxicity and cross-resistance of L. striatellus to insecticides.
After 32-generation screening with buprofezin, L. striatellus developed
168.49 folds resistance and its reality heritability (h2) was 0.11.
If the killing rate was 80%-90%, L. striatellus was expected to develop
10-fold resistance to buprofezin only after 5 to 6 generations breeding.
Because  the actual reality heritability of field populations was usually
lower than that  of the resistant strains, the production of field
populations increasing with 10-fold resistance would need much longer
time. The results of cross-resistance showed that resistant strain
had high level cross-resistance with thiamethoxam and imidacloprid,
low level cross-resistance with acetamiprid, and no cross-resistance
with pymetrozine and chlorpyrifos. The activity of detoxification enzymes
of different strains and the syergism of synergist were measured. The
results showed that cytochrome P450 monooxygenase played a major role
in the resistance of L. striatellus to buprofezin, the esterase played
a minor role and the GSH-S-transferase had no effect. Therefore, L.
striatellus would have high risk to develop resistance to buprofezin
when used in the field and might be delayed by using pymetrozine and
chlorpyrifos.

 27228199   Feng R et al (2016) "Interaction effects on cytochrome P450 both in vitro and in vivo studies by two major bioactive xanthones from Halenia elliptica D. Don." Biomed Chromatogr

The major components, 1-hydroxy-2, 3, 5-trimethoxy-xanthone (HM-1)
and 1, 5-dihydroxy-2, 3-dimethoxy-xanthone (HM-5) isolated from Halenia
elliptica D. Don (Gentianaceae), could cause vasodilatation in rat
coronary artery with different  mechanisms. In this work, high performance
liquid chromatography coupled to ion trap time-of-flight mass spectrometry
(LCMS-IT-TOF) was used to clarify the metabolic pathways, and CYP450
isoforms involvement of HM-1 and HM-5 were also studied in rat. At
the same time, in vivo inhibition effects of HM-1 and ethyl acetate
extracts from origin herb were studied. Three metabolites of HM-5 were
found in rat liver microsomes (RLMs); demethylation and hydroxylation
were the major phase I metabolic reactions for HM-5. Multi-CYP450s
involved in metabolism  of HM-1 and HM-5. The inhibition study presented
that HM-5 inhibited Cyp1a2, 2c6  and 2d2 in RLMs. HM-1 inhibited activities
of Cyp1a2, Cyp2c6 and Cyp3a2. In vivo  experiment demonstrated that
both HM-1 and ethyl acetate extracts could inhibit Cyp3a2 in rats.
In conclusion, the metabolism of xanthones from the origin herb were
multi-CYP450 isoforms involved; in vitro, metabolism of HM-5 was similar
to  its parent drug HM-1, but their inhibition effects upon CYP450s
were different; in vivo, Cyp3a2 was accessible to be inhibited by HM-1
and ethyl acetate extracts.

 27228076   Ng DS et al (2016) "Genetics of Bietti Crystalline Dystrophy." Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila)

Bietti crystalline dystrophy (BCD) is an inherited retinal degenerative
disease characterized by crystalline deposits in the retina, followed
by progressive atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), choriocapillaris,
and photoreceptors. CYP4V2 has been identified as the causative gene
for BCD. The CYP4V2 gene belongs to the cytochrome P450 superfamily
and encodes for fatty acid omega-hydroxylase of both saturated and
unsaturated fatty acids. The CYP4V2 protein is localized most abundantly
within the endoplasmic reticulum in the RPE  and is postulated to play
a role in the physiological lipid recycling system between the RPE
and photoreceptors to maintain visual function. Electroretinographic
assessments have revealed progressive dysfunction of rod and cone photoreceptors
in patients with BCD. Several genotypes have been associated  with
more severe phenotypes based on clinical and electrophysiological findings.
With the advent of multimodal imaging with spectral domain optical
coherence tomography, fundus autofluorescence, and adaptive optics
scanning laser ophthalmoscopy, more precise delineation of BCD severity
and progression is now possible, allowing for the potential future
development of targets for gene therapy.

 27227433   Petersen BK et al (2016) "Virtual Experiments Enable Exploring and Challenging Explanatory Mechanisms of Immune-Mediated P450 Down-Regulation." PLoS One 11(5), e0155855

Hepatic cytochrome P450 levels are down-regulated during inflammatory
disease states, which can cause changes in downstream drug metabolism
and hepatotoxicity. Long-term, we seek sufficient new insight into
P450-regulating mechanisms to correctly anticipate how an individual's
P450 expressions will respond when health and/or therapeutic interventions
change. To date, improving explanatory mechanistic insight relies on
knowledge gleaned from in vitro, in vivo, and clinical experiments
augmented by case reports. We are working to improve that reality by
developing means to undertake scientifically useful virtual experiments.
So doing requires translating an accepted theory of immune system influence
on P450 regulation into a computational model, and then challenging
the model via in silico experiments. We build upon two existing agent-based
models-an in silico hepatocyte culture and an in silico liver-capable
of exploring and challenging concrete mechanistic hypotheses. We instantiate
an in silico version  of this hypothesis: in response to lipopolysaccharide,
Kupffer cells down-regulate hepatic P450 levels via inflammatory cytokines,
thus leading to a reduction in metabolic capacity. We achieve multiple
in vitro and in vivo validation targets gathered from five wet-lab
experiments, including a lipopolysaccharide-cytokine dose-response
curve, time-course P450 down-regulation, and changes in several different
measures of drug clearance spanning three drugs: acetaminophen, antipyrine,
and chlorzoxazone. Along the way to achieving validation targets, various
aspects of each model are falsified and  subsequently refined. This
iterative process of falsification-refinement-validation leads to biomimetic
yet parsimonious mechanisms, which can provide explanatory insight
into how, where, and when various features are generated. We argue
that as models such as these are incrementally improved through multiple
rounds of mechanistic falsification and validation, we will generate
virtual systems that embody deeper credible, actionable, explanatory
insight into immune system-drug metabolism interactions within individuals.

 27226491   Huffman MP et al (2016) "An in vitro study on the genotoxic effect of substituted furans in cells transfected with human metabolizing enzymes: 2,5-dimethylfuran and furfuryl alcohol." Mutagenesis

2,5-Dimethylfuran (DMF) and furfuryl alcohol (FFA) are two substituted
furans that are formed during the processing of foods and have also
been used as food flavorings. DMF and FFA are proposed to be bioactivated
by human sulfotransferases (SULTs) which are not expressed in conventional
cell lines used for genotoxicity testing. Therefore, in addition to
the standard V79 cell line, we used a transfected V79 derived cell
line co-expressing human cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2E1 and human SULT1A1
to assess the genotoxicity of DMF and FFA. The alkaline single cell
gel electrophoresis (SCGE) assay was used to detect DNA damage in the
form of single strand breaks and alkali-labile sites after exposure
to DMF (0.5h; 0.5, 1, 1.5 or 2mM) or FFA (3h; 1, 3, 6 or 15mM). DMF
induced DNA damage in V79 cells in a concentration-dependent manner
irrespective of the expression of human CYP2E1 and SULT1A1. Almost
no increase in the level of DNA damage was detected after exposure
to FFA, except for a weak effect at the highest concentration in the
transfected cell line. The results suggest that DNA  damage in V79
cells from exposure to DMF detected by the alkaline SCGE assay is independent
of human CYP2E1 and SULT1A1, and the genotoxic effect of FFA, as assessed
by SCGE, is minimal in V79 cells.

 27226420   Srinivas NR (2016) "Clinical pharmacokinetics of panobinostat, a novel histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor: review and perspectives." Xenobiotica, 1-15

1. Panobinostat is a recently approved histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor.
2. The pharmacokinetic data of panobinostat in patients with hematologic
malignancies and advanced solid tumors have been collated and reviewed
from the various published clinical studies for over a decade. Further
perspectives and anticipated challenges in the clinical therapy with
panobinostat are discussed in the review. 3. Regardless of intravenous
or oral dosing, panobinostat showed a high degree of inter-patient
variability in the pharmacokinetics. After oral administration, most
of the administered dose is extensively metabolized and the  metabolites
are either fecally or renally excreted with trace amount of intact
panobinostat. Both cytochrome p450 (CYP) 3A4 and non-CYP mechanisms
govern the clearance of panobinostat. CYP3A4-related drug-drug interactions
with panobinostat have been documented with ketoconazole (inhibitor)
and dexamethasone (inducer). 4. In summary, the clinical pharmacokinetic
data of panobinostat, a promising HDAC inhibitor, obtained from various
clinical studies do not appear to limit the utility of panobinostat
in the clinic.

 27226306   Gilroy DW et al (2016) "CYP450-derived oxylipins mediate inflammatory resolution." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A

Resolution of inflammation has emerged as an active process in immunobiology,
with cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system being critical in mediating
efferocytosis and wound debridement and bridging the gap between innate
and adaptive immunity. Here we investigated the roles of cytochrome
P450 (CYP)-derived epoxy-oxylipins in a well-characterized model of
sterile resolving  peritonitis in the mouse. Epoxy-oxylipins were produced
in a biphasic manner during the peaks of acute (4 h) and resolution
phases (24-48 h) of the response.  The epoxygenase inhibitor SKF525A
(epoxI) given at 24 h selectively inhibited arachidonic acid- and linoleic
acid-derived CYP450-epoxy-oxlipins and resulted in a dramatic influx
in monocytes. The epoxI-recruited monocytes were strongly GR1+, Ly6chi,
CCR2hi, CCL2hi, and CX3CR1lo In addition, expression of F4/80 and the
recruitment of T cells, B cells, and dendritic cells were suppressed.
sEH (Ephx2)-/- mice, which have elevated epoxy-oxylipins, demonstrated
opposing effects to epoxI-treated mice: reduced Ly6chi monocytes and
elevated F4/80hi macrophages and B, T, and dendritic cells. Ly6chi
and Ly6clo monocytes, resident  macrophages, and recruited dendritic
cells all showed a dramatic change in their  resolution signature following
in vivo epoxI treatment. Markers of macrophage differentiation CD11b,
MerTK, and CD103 were reduced, and monocyte-derived macrophages and
resident macrophages ex vivo showed greatly impaired phagocytosis of
zymosan and efferocytosis of apoptotic thymocytes following epoxI treatment.
These findings demonstrate that epoxy-oxylipins have a critical role
in monocyte  lineage recruitment and activity to promote inflammatory
resolution and represent a previously unidentified internal regulatory
system governing the establishment  of adaptive immunity.

 27225997   Budha NR et al (2016) "Evaluation of Cytochrome P450 3A4-Mediated Drug-Drug Interaction Potential for Cobimetinib Using Physiologically Based Pharmacokinetic Modeling and Simulation." Clin Pharmacokinet

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Cobimetinib is eliminated mainly through
cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4-mediated hepatic metabolism in humans. A
clinical drug-drug interaction (DDI) study with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor
itraconazole resulted in an approximately sevenfold increase in cobimetinib
exposure. The DDI risk for cobimetinib with other CYP3A4 inhibitors
and inducers needs to be assessed in order to provide dosing instructions.
METHODS: A physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model was developed
for cobimetinib using in vitro data. It was then optimized and verified
using clinical pharmacokinetic data and itraconazole-cobimetinib DDI
data. The contribution of CYP3A4 to the clearance of cobimetinib in
humans was confirmed using sensitivity analysis in a retrospective
simulation of itraconazole-cobimetinib DDI data. The verified PBPK
model was then used to predict the effect of other CYP3A4 inhibitors
and inducers on cobimetinib pharmacokinetics. RESULTS: The PBPK model
described cobimetinib pharmacokinetic profiles after both intravenous
and oral administration of cobimetinib well and accurately simulated
the itraconazole-cobimetinib DDI. Sensitivity analysis suggested that
CYP3A4 contributes ~78 % of the total clearance of cobimetinib. The
PBPK model predicted no change in cobimetinib exposure (area under
the plasma concentration-time curve, AUC) with the weak CYP3A inhibitor
fluvoxamine and a three to fourfold increase with the moderate CYP3A
inhibitors, erythromycin and diltiazem. Similarly, cobimetinib exposure
in the presence of strong (rifampicin) and moderate (efavirenz) CYP3A
inducers was predicted to decrease by 83 and 72 %, respectively. CONCLUSION:
This study demonstrates the value of using PBPK simulation to assess
the clinical DDI risk inorder to provide dosing instructions with other
CYP3A4 perpetrators.

 27225995   Chenge J et al (2016) "Structural characterization of CYP144A1 - a cytochrome P450 enzyme expressed from alternative transcripts in Mycobacterium tuberculosis." Sci Rep 6, 26628

Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) causes the disease tuberculosis (TB).
The virulent Mtb H37Rv strain encodes 20 cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes,
many of which are implicated in Mtb survival and pathogenicity in the
human host. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that CYP144A1 is retained
exclusively within the Mycobacterium genus, particularly in species
causing human and animal disease. Transcriptomic annotation revealed
two possible CYP144A1 start codons, leading to expression of (i) a
"full-length" 434 amino acid version (CYP144A1-FLV) and (ii)  a "truncated"
404 amino acid version (CYP144A1-TRV). Computational analysis predicted
that the extended N-terminal region of CYP144A1-FLV is largely unstructured.
CYP144A1 FLV and TRV forms were purified in heme-bound states. Mass
spectrometry confirmed production of intact, His6-tagged forms of CYP144A1-FLV
and -TRV, with EPR demonstrating cysteine thiolate coordination of
heme iron in both cases. Hydrodynamic analysis indicated that both
CYP144A1 forms are monomeric. CYP144A1-TRV was crystallized and the
first structure of a CYP144 family P450 protein determined. CYP144A1-TRV
has an open structure primed for substrate binding, with a large active
site cavity. Our data provide the first evidence that Mtb produces
two different forms of CYP144A1 from alternative transcripts, with
CYP144A1-TRV generated from a leaderless transcript lacking a 5'-untranslated
region and Shine-Dalgarno ribosome binding site.

 27225395   Di Taranto MD et al (2016) "Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, a metabolic disease with different neurological signs: two case reports." Metab Brain Dis

Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) is an autosomal recessive inborn
error of bile acids synthesis and lipid accumulation caused by a deficiency
of the mitochondrial cytochrome P450 sterol 27-hydroxylase enzyme encoded
by CYP27A1. Pathogenic variants in CYP27A1 cause elevated cholestanol
levels in the body, which leads to a variable clinical presentation
that often includes cataracts, intellectual disability, neurological
features, tendon xanthomas, and chronic diarrhea. Herein we describe
the cases of two unrelated adult CTX patients. Case  1 is a patient
with neurological dysfunction, including moderate intellectual disability,
cataract of right eye, and xanthomas; Case 2 is a patient with tendon
xanthomas without neurological symptoms. Plasma sterols profile obtained
from both cases showed higher levels of cholestanol and cholesterol
biosynthetic precursors compared to unaffected subjects. Case 1 and
Case 2 were homozygous for the c.1263 + 5G > T (p.Leu396Profs29X) and
c.1435C > G (p.Arg479Gly) pathogenic variants, respectively, in the
CYP27A1 gene. Interestingly, for the first time, Case 2 variant has
been identified in a homozygous state. Our results highlight that the
sterol profile and genetic analyses are essential to make the diagnosis
of CTX and to exclude other dyslipidemias.

 27224941   Ramakrishna R et al (2016) "Evaluation of the impact of 16-dehydropregnenolone on the activity and expression of rat hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes." J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol

16-dehydropregnenolone (DHP) is a promising novel antihyperlipidemic
agent developed and patented by Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI),
India. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether
DHP influences the activities and mRNA expression of hepatic drug-metabolizing
cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2C11, CYP2D2, CYP2E1 and
CYP3A1) in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. A cocktail suspension of CYP probe
substrates which contained caffeine (CYP1A2),  tolbutamide (CYP2C11),
dextromethorphan (CYP2D2), chlorzoxazone (CYP2E1) and dapsone (CYP3A1)
was administered orally on eighth- or fifteenth-day to rats pre-treated
with DHP intragastrically at a dose of 36 and 72mg/kg for one week
and two weeks. The concentrations of probe drugs in plasma were estimated
by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Alongside,
the effect  of DHP on CYPs activity and mRNA expression levels were
assayed in isolated rat liver microsomes and by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase
chain reaction (RT-PCR), respectively. DHP had significant inducing
effects on CYP1A2, 2C11, 2D2 and 2E1 with no effect on CYP3A1 in dose-
and time-dependent manner, as revealed  from the pharmacokinetic profiles
of the probe drugs in rats. In-vitro microsomal activities and mRNA
expression results were in good agreement with the in-vivo pharmacokinetic
results. Collectively, the results unveiled that DHP is an inducer
of rat hepatic CYP enzymes. Hence, intense attention should be paid
when  DHP is co-administered with drugs metabolized by CYP1A2, 2C11,
2D2 and 2E1, which might result in drug-drug interactions and therapeutic
failure.

 27222744   El-Fishawy H et al (2016) "Antiviral treatment prioritization in HCV-infected patients with extrahepatic manifestations - An Egyptian perspective." J Adv Res 7(3), 391-402

Egypt, the single country with highest incidence of HCV infection in
the world, has embarked on a government-sponsored mass treatment program
using several combinations of DAAs. Recognizing the importance of extrahepatic
manifestations,  independently of the hepatic, a subcommittee was assigned
to develop national guidelines for respective prioritizing indications
and protocols. It evaluated the benefit of treating patients with different
extrahepatic manifestations, and  reviewed relevant clinical trials
and guidelines concerning DAA combinations available in Egypt. The
latter included Sofosbuvir plus either peg-interferon, Simeprevir,
Ledipasvir or daclatasvir, and the Viekera family comprising paritaprevir/ritonavir
+ ombitasvir with (GT-1) or without (GT-4) Dasabuvir. Any  of these
protocols may be used with or without Ribavirin according to indication.
A blueprint was subjected to peer debate in dedicated workshops in
two national meetings and subsequently to an online professional review,
eventually leading to a final report that was adopted by the health
authorities. Seven compelling and 10 optional indications were identified
for treating patients with predominantly  extrahepatic manifestations.
The former include kidney disease at different stages, cryoglobulinemic
vasculitis and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Selected treatment  protocols,
were encoded and their use was prioritized on the basis of evidence
of efficacy and safety. We concluded that any of the studied protocols
may be used,  preferably with ribavirin, for 12-week treatment in all
patients with extrahepatic manifestations without cirrhosis and with
eGFR above 30 ml/min/1.73  sqm. Ribavirin should be included in protocols
for treating patients with compensated cirrhosis. Daclatasvir-based
protocols are recommended for decompensated cirrhosis, while the Viekera
family is recommended in patients with eGFR < 30 ml/min/1.73 sqm, including
those on dialysis. In kidney-transplanted patents, caution is due to
avoidance of the pharmacokinetic interaction with the  Cytochrome-P450
enzyme system, in-between immunosuppressive agents and most DAAs, particularly
the Viekera family.

 27220560   Guryn R et al (2016) "Non-imidazole histamine H3 ligands. Part VI. Synthesis and preliminary pharmacological investigation of thiazole-type histamine H3-receptor antagonists  with lacking a nitrogen nucleus in the side chain." Med Chem

BACKGROUND: Antagonists to the H3 receptor are considered to be potential
drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, attention deficit-hyperactive
disorder, memory and learning deficits, and epilepsy. The initial development
of potent H3  receptor antagonists focused on extensive modification
of the natural ligand histamine. However, it has appeared that imidazole-containing
ligands are associated with inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes,
caused by imidazole nitrogen complexation to heme iron in the active
site of the enzyme. For these reasons, the development of potent non-imidazole
H3 receptor antagonists was eagerly awaited. OBJECTIVE: Previously,
we reported the synthesis and pharmacological in vitro characterization
of series of potent histamine H3-receptor non-imidazole antagonists
belonging to the class of substituted 2-thiazol-4-n-propylpiperazines.
A lead compound 1 of this family was derivative  carrying the ethylaminomethylpropyl
chain. With the aim of increasing lipophilicity, that will help the
ligands to cross the blood-brain barrier, Methods: we synthesised series
of new 2-thiazol-4-n-propylpiperazines where the ethylaminomethylpropyl
moiety was replaced by a p-substituted-, an unsubstituted  benzene
ring , and omega-phenylalkyl substituent at position 4 and 5 of thiazole
ring, respectively. All compounds were tested for H3 antagonistic effects
in vitro using the electrically contracting guinea pig jejunum. RESULTS:
The most active compounds of presented series 3d, 3e, and 3j showed
lower affinity than the lead compound 1 and additionally, derivatives
3d and 3j possessed weak, competitive H1-antagonistic activity. This
is in contrast to the lead compound 1  that has no affinity at H1 receptor.
CONCLUSION: We can conclude that a side chain in the 2-thiazol-4-n-propylpiperazine
scaffold should contain a basic center and should be present at a favourable
position 5 of thiazole ring.

 27218144   Qu B et al (2016) "Multiple effects of magnesium isoglycyrrhizinate on the disposition of docetaxel  in docetaxel-induced liver injury." Xenobiotica, 1-7

1. Magnesium isoglycyrrhizinate (MgIg) has been extensively used in
treating liver injury which is the common adverse reaction of docetaxel
(DOC). Due to the  narrow therapeutic window, small changes in pharmacokinetic
profiles can alter the toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of DOC significantly.
The study aimed to explore the effects of MgIg on the disposition of
DOC and the potential mechanism in DOC-induced liver injury. 2. Pharmacokinetics
and tissues distribution behaviors showed that there was no significant
difference between DOC group (DOCG) and MgIg + DOC group (MDOCG). The
mRNA and protein levels of cytochrome P450 3A1 (CYP3A1) in liver, intestine,
and kidney were significantly upregulated, and the P-glycoprotein (P-gp)
was obviously downregulated in MDOCG when compared  with DOCG. 3. Immunoglobulin
M (IgM), CD8+ were upregulated in DOCG; while in MDOCG, IgM, CD8+ recovered
to normal levels and complement C3; CD4+ were upregulated. 4. MgIg
had no significant effects on the disposition of DOC in docetaxel-induced
liver injury. Additional, potential drug-drug interaction may happen
if MgIg co-administered with antitumor drugs which are the substrates
of CYP3A4 or P-gp. Hepatoprotective mechanism of MgIg perhaps was through
upregulation of C3, CD4+ and downregulation of IgM, CD8+.

 27217490   Zhou X et al (2016) "Difference in the pharmacokinetics and hepatic metabolism of anti-diabetic drugs  in Zucker Diabetic Fatty and Sprague-Dawley rats." Drug Metab Dispos

The Zucker Diabetic Fatty (ZDF) rat, an inbred strain of obese Zucker
fatty rat,  develops early onset of insulin resistance and displays
hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia. The phenotypic changes resemble human
type 2 diabetes associated  with obesity and therefore the strain is
used as a pharmacological model for type 2 diabetes. The aim of the
current study was to compare the pharmacokinetics and  hepatic metabolism
of five anti-diabetic drugs in male ZDF and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats,
which are known to be cleared via various mechanisms. Among the drugs
examined, metformin, cleared through renal excretion, and rosiglitazone,
metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C, did not exhibit differences
in the plasma clearance in ZDF and SD rats. In contrast, glibenclamide,
metabolized  by hepatic CYP3A, canagliflozin, metabolized mainly by
UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT), and troglitazone metabolized by
sulfotransferase and UGT, exhibited significantly lower plasma clearance
in ZDF than in SD rats after a single intravenous administration. To
elucidate the mechanisms for the difference in the drug clearance,
studies were performed to characterize the activity of hepatic drug-metabolizing
enzymes using liver S9 fractions from the two strains. The results
revealed that the activity for CYP3A  and UGT was decreased in ZDF
rats using the probe substrates, and decreased unbound intrinsic clearance
in vitro for glibenclamide, canagliflozin and troglitazone was consistent
with lower plasma clearance in vivo. The difference in pharmacokinetics
of these two strains may complicate PK/PD correlations, given that
ZDF is used as a pharmacological model, and SD rat as the pharmacokinetics
and toxicology strain.

 27217047   Yamashita T et al (2016) "Effects of CYP3A5 polymorphism on the pharmacokinetics of a once-daily modified-release tacrolimus formulation and acute kidney injury in hematopoietic  stem cell transplantation." Cancer Chemother Pharmacol

BACKGROUND: Tacrolimus is metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4
and 3A5. We investigated the influence of CYP3A5 polymorphism and concurrent
use of azole antifungal agents (AZ) on the pharmacokinetics of a once-daily
modified-release tacrolimus formulation (Tac-QD) in patients after
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). DESIGN AND METHODS:
Twenty-four patients receiving allogeneic HSCT were enrolled. Genotyping
for CYP3A5*3 was done by a PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism
method. Trough blood concentrations  (C0) of tacrolimus were measured
by chemiluminescence magnetic microparticle immunoassay. Continuous
infusion of tacrolimus was administered from the day before transplantation
and was switched to Tac-QD after adequate oral intake. RESULTS: Thirteen
patients had a CYP3A5*3/*3 genotype, and 11 patients had a CYP3A5*1/*1
or *1/*3 genotype. No significant difference was observed in daily
dosages and the C0 of tacrolimus between the two genotype groups without
AZ. However, in patients who were co-administered AZ, the C0 values
of tacrolimus were higher in patients with the CYP3A5*3/*3 allele than
with the CYP3A5*1 allele (P = 0.034), although daily doses of Tac-QD
in patients with CYP3A5*3/*3 were significantly lower than those with
the CYP3A5*1 allele (P = 0.041). The cumulative incidence of acute
kidney injury was higher in patients with the CYP3A5*3/*3 than with
the CYP3A5*1 allele when AZ was co-administered. The decrement for
daily dosage of Tac-QD was significantly greater in patients expressing
the CYP3A5*3/*3 than the CYP3A5*1 allele. CONCLUSIONS: CYP3A5 genotyping
may be useful for safe and effective immunosuppressive therapy with
Tac-QD in HSCT patients in whom the use of AZ is anticipated.

 27216792   Yang R et al (2016) "Drug Interactions with Angiotensin Receptor Blockers: Role of Human Cytochromes P450." Curr Drug Metab

Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are the most recent class of agents
for the  treatment of hypertension. However, ARBs may cause a low incidence
of headache, upper respiratory infection, back pain, muscle cramps,
fatigue, dizziness, and many other side effects. In some cases, such
toxicity is associated with pharmacokinetic alterations. The cytochrome
P450 (CYP) enzyme system plays an important role in a lot of clinically
important pharmacokinetic drug interactions. Specific cytochrome P450
(CYP) enzymes have been recently shown to  be involved in the metabolism
of several essential ARBs. Losartan is metabolized  by the cytochrome
P450 (CYP) 3A4 and 2C9 isoenzymes. Irbesartan is metabolized primarily
by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4. Valsartan, candesartan,
and azilsartan are metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9. Eprosartan,
telmisartan  and olmesartan are not metabolized by CYP system. Therefore,
according to these pharmacokinetic findings, no dosage adjustment is
recommended when eprosartan, telmisartan and olmesartan are combined
with other pharmacological agents in patients with hypertension. However,
as indicated above, several of antihypertensive agents are metabolized
by CYP enzymes, and physicians should be  aware of coadministered drugs
that may inhibit or induce these CYP enzymes. This  review summarize
the available data on cytochrome P450 - related drug-drug interactions
reported in the literature for the eight ARBs. Knowledge of the pharmacokinetic
properties of the ARBs should allow the avoidance of the majority of
drug interactions without compromising therapeutic benefits.

 27216294   Achterbergh R et al (2016) "A short-term high fat diet increases exposure to midazolam and omeprazole in healthy subjects." Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol

OBJECTIVES: Knowledge of factors contributing to variation in drug
metabolism is  of vital importance to optimize drug treatment. This
study assesses the effects of a short-term hypercaloric high fat diet
on metabolism of five oral drugs, which are each specific for a single
P450 isoform: midazolam (CYP3A4), omeprazole (CYP2C19), metoprolol
(CYP2D6), S-warfarin (CYP2C9) and caffeine (CYP1A2). METHODS: In 9
healthy volunteers, pharmacokinetics of the five drugs were assessed
after an overnight fast at two separate occasions: after a regular
diet  and after 3 days of a hypercaloric high fat diet (i.e. regular
diet supplemented  with 500 mL cream [1715 kcal, 35% fat]). Pharmacokinetic
parameters (mean [SEM])  were estimated by non-compartmental analysis.
RESULTS: The high fat diet increased exposure to midazolam by 19% from
24.7 (2.6) to 29.5 (3.6) ng ml-1h-1 (p=0.04) and exposure to omeprazole
by 31 % from 726 (104) to 951 (168) ng ml-1h-1 (p=0.05). Exposure to
metoprolol, caffeine and S-warfarin was not affected by the high fat
diet. CONCLUSION: A short-term hypercaloric high fat diet increases
exposure to midazolam and omeprazole, possibly reflecting modulation
of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.

 27214556   Lenti E et al (2016) "Transcription factor TLX1 controls retinoic acid signaling to ensure spleen development." J Clin Invest

The molecular mechanisms that underlie spleen development and congenital
asplenia, a condition linked to increased risk of overwhelming infections,
remain largely unknown. The transcription factor TLX1 controls cell
fate specification and organ expansion during spleen development, and
Tlx1 deletion causes asplenia  in mice. Deregulation of TLX1 expression
has recently been proposed in the pathogenesis of congenital asplenia
in patients carrying mutations of the gene-encoding transcription factor
SF-1. Herein, we have shown that TLX1-dependent regulation of retinoic
acid (RA) metabolism is critical for spleen organogenesis. In a murine
model, loss of Tlx1 during formation of the splenic anlage increased
RA signaling by regulating several genes involved in RA metabolism.
Uncontrolled RA activity resulted in premature differentiation of mesenchymal
cells and reduced vasculogenesis of the splenic primordium. Pharmacological
inhibition of RA signaling in Tlx1-deficient animals partially rescued
the spleen defect. Finally, spleen growth was impaired in mice lacking
either cytochrome P450 26B1 (Cyp26b1), which results in excess RA,
or retinol dehydrogenase 10 (Rdh10), which results in RA deficiency.
Together, these findings establish TLX1 as a critical regulator of
RA metabolism and provide mechanistic insights into the molecular determinants
of human congenital asplenia.

 27214242   Andre CM et al (2016) "Multifunctional oxidosqualene cyclases and cytochrome P450 involved in the biosynthesis of apple fruit triterpenic acids." New Phytol

Apple (Malus x domestica) accumulates bioactive ursane-, oleanane-,
and lupane-type triterpenes in its fruit cuticle, but their biosynthetic
pathway is still poorly understood. We used a homology-based approach
to identify and functionally characterize two new oxidosqualene cyclases
(MdOSC4 and MdOSC5) and  one cytochrome P450 (CYP716A175). The gene
expression patterns of these enzymes and of previously described oxidosqualene
cyclases were further studied in 20 apple cultivars with contrasting
triterpene profiles. MdOSC4 encodes a multifunctional oxidosqualene
cyclase producing an oleanane-type triterpene, putatively identified
as germanicol, as well as beta-amyrin and lupeol, in the proportion
82 : 14 : 4. MdOSC5 cyclizes 2,3-oxidosqualene into lupeol and beta-amyrin
at a ratio of 95 : 5. CYP716A175 catalyses the C-28 oxidation of alpha-amyrin,
beta-amyrin, lupeol and germanicol, producing ursolic acid, oleanolic
acid, betulinic acid, and putatively morolic acid. The gene expression
of MdOSC1 was linked to the concentrations of ursolic and oleanolic
acid, whereas the expression of MdOSC5 was correlated with the concentrations
of betulinic acid and its caffeate derivatives. Two new multifuntional
triterpene synthases as well as a multifunctional triterpene C-28 oxidase
were identified in Malus x domestica. This study also suggests that
MdOSC1 and MdOSC5 are key genes in apple fruit triterpene biosynthesis.

 27214159   Ohtani H et al (2016) "In silico evaluation of warfarin-bucolome therapy." Biopharm Drug Dispos 37(4), 233-242

PURPOSE: Some reports have suggested that bucolome, an inhibitor of
cytochrome P450 2C9, is useful for decreasing inter-patient variation
in warfarin clearance. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate
the utility of the concomitant administration of bucolome and warfarin
using an in silico approach. METHODS: In  vitro data regarding the
enzymatic kinetics of (S)-warfarin and bucolome were collected from
the literature. As a validation study, the geometric mean (GM) of  the
oral unbound clearance of (S)-warfarin and its inter-patient variation
(assessed using the standard deviation of its natural logarithm (sigma))
were predicted using a physiologically based population pharmacokinetic
simulator (Simcyp(TM) ) and compared with clinical data. The utility
of the concomitant administration was evaluated by comparing the GM
and sigma values predicted under various conditions (the prediction
study). RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The sigma values in the presence and
absence of bucolome were predicted to be 0.73 and 0.68, respectively,
suggesting that bucolome might increase the inter-patient variation,
as clinically observed. In the prediction study, the sigma value of
the bucolome co-administered group was greater in almost all of the
examined conditions. In conclusion, the concomitant administration
of bucolome might not be useful for reducing the inter-patient variation
of (S)-warfarin pharmacokinetics. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons,
Ltd.

