"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Only for topical use of recurrent HSV lesions on the external aspect of lips and the face. ZOVIRAX Cream should not be applied on mucous membranes including in the eye or inside the mouth or nose. (5) -There is a potential for irritation and contact sensitization. (5) 5.1 General ZOVIRAX Cream should only be applied on the affected external aspects of the lips and face in patients with herpes labialis. Because no data are available, application to human mucous membranes is not recommended. ZOVIRAX Cream is intended for cutaneous use only and should not be used in the eye or inside the mouth or nose. 5.2 Contact Sensitization ZOVIRAX Cream has a potential for irritation and contact sensitization [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. The effect of ZOVIRAX Cream has not been established in immunocompromised patients."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS -The most common adverse reactions reported were local skin reactions at the application site (6.1) -Angioedema, anaphylaxis, contact dermatitis and eczema have been reported (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1-800-321-4576 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug, and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In five double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, 1,124 patients were treated with ZOVIRAX Cream and 1,161 with placebo (vehicle) cream. Local application site reactions were reported by 5% of patients receiving ZOVIRAX Cream and 4% of patients receiving placebo. The most common adverse reactions at the site of topical application were dry lips, desquamation, dryness of skin, cracked lips, burning skin, pruritus, flakiness of skin, and stinging on skin; each adverse reaction occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving ZOVIRAX Cream and placebo. Three patients on ZOVIRAX Cream and one patient on placebo discontinued treatment due to an adverse event. An additional study, enrolling 22 healthy adults, was conducted to evaluate the dermal tolerance of ZOVIRAX Cream compared with vehicle using single occluded and semi-occluded patch testing methodology. Both ZOVIRAX Cream and placebo showed a high and cumulative irritation potential. Another study, enrolling 251 healthy adults, was conducted to evaluate the contact sensitization potential of ZOVIRAX Cream using repeat insult patch testing methodology. Of 202 evaluable subjects, possible cutaneous sensitization reactions were observed in the same 4 (2%) subjects with both ZOVIRAX Cream and placebo, and these reactions to both ZOVIRAX Cream and placebo were confirmed in 3 subjects upon rechallenge. The sensitizing ingredient(s) has not been identified. The safety profile in patients 12 to 17 years of age was similar to that observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during post-approval use of acyclovir cream. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to acyclovir cream. General: Angioedema, anaphylaxis. Skin: Contact dermatitis, eczema."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with ZOVIRAX Cream. Due to minimal systemic absorption of ZOVIRAX cream, systemic drug interactions are unlikely. -Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with ZOVIRAX Cream. Due to minimal systemic absorption of ZOVIRAX cream, systemic drug interactions are unlikely. (7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 5 double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, 1,124 patients were treated with ZOVIRAX Cream and 1,161 with placebo (vehicle) cream. ZOVIRAX Cream was well tolerated; 5% of patients on ZOVIRAX Cream and 4% of patients on placebo reported local application site reactions. The most common adverse reactions at the site of topical application were dry lips, desquamation, dryness of skin, cracked lips, burning skin, pruritus, flakiness of skin, and stinging on skin; each event occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving ZOVIRAX Cream and vehicle. Three patients on ZOVIRAX Cream and 1 patient on placebo discontinued treatment due to an adverse event. An additional study, enrolling 22 healthy adults, was conducted to evaluate the dermal tolerance of ZOVIRAX Cream compared with vehicle using single occluded and semi-occluded patch testing methodology. Both ZOVIRAX Cream and vehicle showed a high and cumulative irritation potential. Another study, enrolling 251 healthy adults, was conducted to evaluate the contact sensitization potential of ZOVIRAX Cream using repeat insult patch testing methodology. Of 202 evaluable subjects, possible cutaneous sensitization reactions were observed in the same 4 (2%) subjects with both ZOVIRAX Cream and vehicle, and these reactions to both ZOVIRAX Cream and vehicle were confirmed in 3 subjects upon rechallenge. The sensitizing ingredient(s) has not been identified. The safety profile in patients 12 to 17 years of age was similar to that observed in adults. Observed During Clinical Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during post-approval use of acyclovir cream. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to acyclovir cream. General: Angioedema, anaphylaxis. Skin: Contact dermatitis, eczema, application site reactions including signs and symptoms of inflammation."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trials, mild pain (including transient burning and stinging) was reported by about 30% of patients in both the active and placebo arms; treatment was discontinued in 2 of these patients. Local pruritus occurred in 4% of these patients. In all studies, there was no significant difference between the drug and placebo group in the rate or type of reported adverse reactions nor were there any differences in abnormal clinical laboratory findings. Observed During Clinical Practice: Based on clinical practice experience in patients treated with acyclovir ointment 5% in the US, spontaneously reported adverse events are uncommon. Data are insufficient to support an estimate of their incidence or to establish causation. These events may also occur as part of the underlying disease process. Voluntary reports of adverse events that have been received since market introduction include: General: Edema and/or pain at the application site. Skin: Pruritus, rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trials, mild pain (including transient burning and stinging) was reported by about 30% of patients in both the active and placebo arms; treatment was discontinued in 2 of these patients. Local pruritus occurred in 4% of these patients. In all studies, there was no significant difference between the drug and placebo group in the rate or type of reported adverse reactions nor were there any differences in abnormal clinical laboratory findings. Observed During Clinical Practice: Based on clinical practice experience in patients treated with acyclovir ointment in the US, spontaneously reported adverse events are uncommon. Data are insufficient to support an estimate of their incidence or to establish causation. These events may also occur as part of the underlying disease process. Voluntary reports of adverse events that have been received since market introduction include: General: Edema and/or pain at the application site. Skin: Pruritus, rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trials, mild pain (including transient burning and stinging) was reported by about 30% of patients in both the active and placebo arms; treatment was discontinued in 2 of these patients. Local pruritus occurred in 4% of these patients. In all studies, there was no significant difference between the drug and placebo group in the rate or type of reported adverse reactions nor were there any differences in abnormal clinical laboratory findings. Observed During Clinical Practice: Based on clinical practice experience in patients treated with Acyclovir Ointment in the US, spontaneously reported adverse events are uncommon. Data are insufficient to support an estimate of their incidence or to establish causation. These events may also occur as part of the underlying disease process. Voluntary reports of adverse events that have been received since market introduction include: General: Edema and/or pain at the application site. Skin: Pruritus, rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trials, mild pain (including transient burning and stinging) was reported by about 30% of patients in both the active and placebo arms; treatment was discontinued in 2 of these patients. Local pruritus occurred in 4% of these patients. In all studies, there was no significant difference between the drug and placebo group in the rate or type of reported adverse reactions nor were there any differences in abnormal clinical laboratory findings. Observed During Clinical Practice: Based on clinical practice experience in patients treated with acyclovir ointment USP 5% in the US, spontaneously reported adverse events are uncommon. Data are insufficient to support an estimate of their incidence or to establish causation. These events may also occur as part of the underlying disease process. Voluntary reports of adverse events that have been received since market introduction include: General: Edema and/or pain at the application site. Skin: Pruritus, rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trials, mild pain (including transient burning and stinging) was reported by about 30% of patients in both the active and placebo arms; treatment was discontinued in 2 of these patients. Local pruritus occurred in 4% of these patients. In all studies, there was no significant difference between the drug and placebo group in the rate or type of reported adverse reactions nor were there any differences in abnormal clinical laboratory findings. Observed During Clinical Practice: Based on clinical practice experience in patients treated with ZOVIRAX Ointment in the US, spontaneously reported adverse events are uncommon. Data are insufficient to support an estimate of their incidence or to establish causation. These events may also occur as part of the underlying disease process. Voluntary reports of adverse events that have been received since market introduction include: General: Edema and/or pain at the application site. Skin: Pruritus, rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the controlled clinical trials, mild pain (including transient burning and stinging) was reported by about 30% of patients in both the active and placebo arms; treatment was discontinued in two of these patients. Local pruritus occurred in 4% of these patients. In all studies, there was no significant difference between the drug and placebo group in the rate or type of reported adverse reactions nor were there any differences in abnormal clinical laboratory findings. Observed During Clinical Practice Based on clinical practice experience in patients treated with acyclovir ointment in the U.S., spontaneously reported adverse events are uncommon. Data are insufficient to support an estimate of their incidence or to establish causation. These events may also occur as part of the underlying disease process. Voluntary reports of adverse events that have been received since market introduction include: General: Edema and/or pain at the application site. Skin: Pruritus, rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions listed below have been observed in controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in approximately 700 patients who received acyclovir at approximately 5 mg/kg (250 mg/m2) 3 times daily, and approximately 300 patients who received approximately 10 mg/kg (500 mg/m2) 3 times daily. The most frequent adverse reactions reported during administration of acyclovir were inflammation or phlebitis at the injection site in approximately 9% of the patients, and transient elevations of serum creatinine or BUN in 5% to 10% (the higher incidence occurred usually following rapid [less than 10 minutes] intravenous infusion). Nausea and/or vomiting occurred in approximately 7% of the patients (the majority occurring in nonhospitalized patients who received 10 mg/kg). Itching, rash, or hives occurred in approximately 2% of patients. Elevation of transaminases occurred in 1% to 2% of patients. The following hematologic abnormalities occurred at a frequency of less than 1%: anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, leukocytosis, and neutrophilia. In addition, anorexia and hematuria were observed. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during post-approval use of Acyclovir Sodium Injection in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, potential causal connection to acyclovir, or a combination of these factors. General: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, fatigue, fever, headache, pain, peripheral edema. Digestive: Abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastrointestinal distress, nausea. Cardiovascular: Hypotension. Hematologic and Lymphatic: Disseminated intravascular coagulation, hemolysis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas : Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice. Musculoskeletal: Myalgia. Nervous: Aggressive behavior, agitation, ataxia, coma, confusion, delirium, dizziness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, hallucinations, obtundation, paresthesia, psychosis, seizure, somnolence, tremor. These symptoms may be marked, particularly in older adults (see PRECAUTIONS ). Skin: Alopecia, erythema multiforme, photosensitive rash, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria. Severe local inflammatory reactions, including tissue necrosis, have occurred following infusion of acyclovir into extravascular tissues. Special Senses: Visual abnormalities. Urogenital: Renal failure, elevated blood urea nitrogen, elevated creatinine (see WARNINGS )."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions listed below have been observed in controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in approximately 700 patients who received acyclovir at approximately 5 mg/kg (250 mg/m2) 3 times daily, and approximately 300 patients who received approximately 10 mg/kg (500 mg/m2) 3 times daily. The most frequent adverse reactions reported during administration of acyclovir were inflammation or phlebitis at the injection site in approximately 9% of the patients, and transient elevations of serum creatinine or BUN in 5% to 10% (the higher incidence occurred usually following rapid [less than 10 minutes] intravenous infusion). Nausea and/or vomiting occurred in approximately 7% of the patients (the majority occurring in nonhospitalized patients who received 10 mg/kg). Itching, rash, or hives occurred in approximately 2% of patients. Elevation of transaminases occurred in 1% to 2% of patients. The following hematologic abnormalities occurred at a frequency of less than 1%: anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, leukocytosis, and neutrophilia. In addition, anorexia and hematuria were observed. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during post-approval use of Acyclovir Sodium Injection in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, potential causal connection to acyclovir, or a combination of these factors. General: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, fatigue, fever, headache, pain, peripheral edema. Digestive: Abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastrointestinal distress, nausea. Cardiovascular: Hypotension. Hematologic and Lymphatic: Disseminated intravascular coagulation, hemolysis,leukocytoclastic vasculitis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas: Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia,jaundice. Musculoskeletal: Myalgia. Nervous: Aggressive behavior, agitation, ataxia, coma, confusion, delirium, dizziness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, hallucinations, obtundation, paresthesia, psychosis, seizure, somnolence, tremor. These symptoms may be marked, particularly in older adults (see PRECAUTIONS ). Skin: Alopecia, erythema multiforme, photosensitive rash, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria. Severe local inflammatory reactions, including tissue necrosis, have occurred following infusion of acyclovir into extravascular tissues. Special Senses: Visual abnormalities. Urogenital: Renal failure, elevated blood urea nitrogen, elevated creatinine (see WARNINGS ).",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions listed below have been observed in controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in approximately 700 patients who received acyclovir at approximately 5 mg/kg (250 mg/m2) 3 times daily, and approximately 300 patients who received approximately 10 mg/kg (500 mg/m2) 3 times daily. The most frequent adverse reactions reported during administration of acyclovir were inflammation or phlebitis at the injection site in approximately 9% of the patients, and transient elevations of serum creatinine or BUN in 5% to 10% (the higher incidence occurred usually following rapid [less than 10 minutes] intravenous infusion). Nausea and/or vomiting occurred in approximately 7% of the patients (the majority occurring in nonhospitalized patients who received 10 mg/kg). Itching, rash, or hives occurred in approximately 2% of patients. Elevation of transaminases occurred in 1% to 2% of patients. The following hematologic abnormalities occurred at a frequency of less than 1%: anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, leukocytosis, and neutrophilia. In addition, anorexia and hematuria were observed. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during post-approval use of Acyclovir Sodium Injection in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, potential causal connection to acyclovir, or a combination of these factors. General: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, fatigue, fever, headache, pain, peripheral edema. Digestive: Abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastrointestinal distress, nausea. Cardiovascular: Hypotension. Hematologic and Lymphatic: Disseminated intravascular coagulation, hemolysis,leukocytoclastic vasculitis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas: Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia,jaundice. Musculoskeletal: Myalgia. Nervous: Aggressive behavior, agitation, ataxia, coma, confusion, delirium, dizziness, dysathria, encephalopathy, hallucinations, obtundation, paresthesia, psychosis, seizure, somnolence, tremor. These symptoms may be marked, particularly in older adults (see PRECAUTIONS). Skin: Alopecia, erythema multiforme, photosensitive rash, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria. Severe local inflammatory reactions, including tissue necrosis, have occurred following infusion of acyclovir into extravascular tissues. Special Senses: Visual abnormalities. Urogenital: Renal failure, elevated blood urea nitrogen, elevated creatinine (see WARNINGS).",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions listed below have been observed in controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in approximately 700 patients who received acyclovir at approximately 5 mg/kg (250 mg/m2) three times daily, and approximately 300 patients who received approximately 10 mg/kg (500 mg/m2) three times daily. The most frequent adverse reactions reported during acyclovir administration were inflammation or phlebitis at the injection site in approximately 9% of the patients, and transient elevations of serum creatinine or BUN in 5% to 10% (the higher incidence occurred usually following rapid [less than 10 minutes] intravenous infusion). Nausea and/or vomiting occurred in approximately 7% of the patients (the majority occurring in nonhospitalized patients who received 10 mg/kg). Itching, rash or hives occurred in approximately 2% of patients. Elevation of transaminases occurred in 1% to 2% of patients. The following hematologic abnormalities occurred at a frequency of less than 1%: anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, leukocytosis, and neutrophilia. In addition, anorexia and hematuria were observed. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during post-approval use of Acyclovir for Injection, USP in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, potential causal connection to acyclovir, or a combination of these factors. General: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, fever, headache, pain, peripheral edema. Digestive: Diarrhea, gastrointestinal distress, nausea. Cardiovascular: Hypotension. Hematologic and Lymphatic: Disseminated intravascular coagulation, hemolysis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas: Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice. Musculoskeletal: Myalgia. Nervous: Aggressive behavior, agitation, ataxia, coma, confusion, delirium, dizziness, encephalopathy, hallucinations, obtundation, paresthesia, psychosis, seizure, somnolence, tremor. These symptoms may be marked, particularly in older adults (See PRECAUTIONS ). Skin: Alopecia, erythema multiforme, photosensitive rash, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria. Severe local inflammatory reactions, including tissue necrosis, have occurred following infusion of acyclovir into extravascular tissues. Special Senses: Visual abnormalities. Urogenital: Renal failure, elevated blood urea nitrogen, elevated creatinine (see WARNINGS ).",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions listed below have been observed in controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials in approximately 700 patients who received acyclovir at approximately 5 mg/kg (250 mg/m2) three times daily, and approximately 300 patients who received approximately 10 mg/kg (500 mg/m2) three times daily. The most frequent adverse reactions reported during administration of acyclovir were inflammation or phlebitis at the injection site in approximately 9% of the patients, and transient elevations of serum creatinine or BUN in 5% to 10% (the higher incidence occurred usually following rapid [less than 10 minutes] intravenous infusion). Nausea and/or vomiting occurred in approximately 7% of the patients (the majority occurring in nonhospitalized patients who received 10 mg/kg). Itching, rash, or hives occurred in approximately 2% of patients. Elevation of transaminases occurred in 1% to 2% of patients. The following hematologic abnormalities occurred at a frequency of less than 1%: anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, leukocytosis, and neutrophilia. In addition, anorexia and hematuria were observed. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during post-approval use of Acyclovir for Injection in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, potential causal connection to acyclovir, or a combination of these factors. General: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, fatigue, fever, headache, pain, peripheral edema. Digestive: Abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastrointestinal distress, nausea. Cardiovascular: Hypotension. Hematologic and Lymphatic: Disseminated intravascular coagulation, hemolysis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas : Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice. Musculoskeletal: Myalgia. Nervous: Aggressive behavior, agitation, ataxia, coma, confusion, delirium, dizziness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, hallucinations, obtundation, paresthesia, psychosis, seizure, somnolence, tremor. These symptoms may be marked, particularly in older adults (see PRECAUTIONS ). Skin: Alopecia, erythema multiforme, photosensitive rash, pruritus, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria. Severe local inflammatory reactions, including tissue necrosis, have occurred following infusion of acyclovir into extravascular tissues. Special Senses: Visual abnormalities. Urogenital: Renal failure, elevated blood urea nitrogen, elevated creatinine (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with acyclovir ointment 5%."$$
"Drug Interactions: Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with acyclovir ointment 5 %."$$
"Drug Interactions: Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with Acyclovir Ointment 5%."$$
"Drug Interactions: Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with acyclovir ointment USP 5%."$$
"Drug Interactions: Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with ZOVIRAX Cream."$$
"Drug Interactions: Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with ZOVIRAX Ointment 5%."$$
"Drug Interactions Coadministration of probenecid with acyclovir has been shown to increase the mean acyclovir half-life and the area under the concentration-time curve. Urinary excretion and renal clearance were correspondingly reduced.",$$
"Drug Interactions See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics."$$
