"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Acute pancreatitis: There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue alogliptin tablets. (5.1) -Hypersensitivity: There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin tablets such as anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions. In such cases, promptly discontinue alogliptin tablets, assess for other potential causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.2) -Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt alogliptin tablets and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart alogliptin tablets if liver injury is confirmed and no alternative etiology can be found. (5.3) -Hypoglycemia: When an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin is used in combination with alogliptin tablets, a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.4) -Arthralgia: Severe and disabling arthralgia has been reported in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. (5.5) -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with alogliptin tablets or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.6) 5.1 Pancreatitis There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis in patients taking alogliptin tablets. After initiation of alogliptin tablets, patients should be observed carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, alogliptin tablets should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using alogliptin tablets. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin tablets. These reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, discontinue alogliptin tablets, assess for other potential causes for the event and institute alternative treatment for diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Use caution in a patient with a history of angioedema with another DPP-4 inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with alogliptin tablets. 5.3 Hepatic Effects There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure in patients taking alogliptin tablets, although some of the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. In randomized controlled studies, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were observed: 1.3% in alogliptin-treated patients and 1.5% in all comparator-treated patients. Patients with type 2 diabetes may have fatty liver disease, which may cause liver test abnormalities, and they may also have other forms of liver disease, many of which can be treated or managed. Therefore, obtaining a liver test panel and assessing the patient before initiating alogliptin tablets therapy is recommended. In patients with abnormal liver tests, alogliptin tablets should be initiated with caution. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have clinically significant liver enzyme elevations and if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, alogliptin tablets should be interrupted and investigation done to establish the probable cause. Alogliptin tablets should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. 5.4 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulfonylureas, are known to cause hypoglycemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with alogliptin tablets. 5.5 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years. Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication. A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. Consider DPP-4 inhibitors as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. 5.6 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with alogliptin tablets or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Acute pancreatitis: There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue NESINA. (5.1) -Heart failure: Consider the risks and benefits of NESINA prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure. If heart failure develops, evaluate and manage according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of NESINA (5.2). -Hypersensitivity: There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with NESINA such as anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. In such cases, promptly discontinue NESINA, assess for other potential causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.3) -Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt NESINA and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart NESINA if liver injury is confirmed and no alternative etiology can be found. (5.4) -Hypoglycemia: When an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin is used in combination with NESINA, a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.5) -Arthralgia: Severe and disabling arthralgia has been reported in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. (5.6) -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with NESINA or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.7) 5.1 Pancreatitis Acute pancreatitis has been reported in the postmarketing setting and in randomized clinical trials. In glycemic control trials in patients with type 2 diabetes, acute pancreatitis was reported in 6 (0.2%) patients treated with NESINA 25 mg and 2 (<0.1%) patients treated with active comparators or placebo. In the EXAMINE trial (a cardiovascular outcomes trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular (CV) risk), acute pancreatitis was reported in 10 (0.4%) of patients treated with NESINA and in 7 (0.3%) of patients treated with placebo. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for pancreatitis while using NESINA. After initiation of NESINA, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, NESINA should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. 5.2 Heart Failure In the EXAMINE trial which enrolled patients with type 2 diabetes and recent acute coronary syndrome, 106 (3.9%) of patients treated with NESINA and 89 (3.3%) of patients treated with placebo were hospitalized for congestive heart failure. Consider the risks and benefits of NESINA prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure, such as those with a prior history of heart failure and a history of renal impairment, and observe these patients for signs and symptoms of heart failure during therapy. Patients should be advised of the characteristic symptoms of heart failure and should be instructed to immediately report such symptoms. If heart failure develops, evaluate and manage according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of NESINA. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with NESINA. These reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, discontinue NESINA, assess for other potential causes for the event and institute alternative treatment for diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Use caution in patients with a history of angioedema with another dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with NESINA. 5.4 Hepatic Effects There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure in patients taking NESINA, although some of the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . In glycemic control trials in patients with type 2 diabetes, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were reported in 1.3% of patients treated with NESINA 25 mg and 1.7% of patients treated with active comparators or placebo. In the EXAMINE trial (a cardiovascular outcomes trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular (CV) risk), increases in serum alanine aminotransferase three times the upper limit of the reference range occurred in 2.4% of patients treated with NESINA and in 1.8% of patients treated with placebo. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have clinically significant liver enzyme elevations and if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, NESINA should be interrupted and investigation done to establish the probable cause. NESINA should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. 5.5 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulfonylureas, are known to cause hypoglycemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with NESINA. 5.6 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years. Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication. A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. Consider DPP-4 inhibitors as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. 5.7 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with NESINA or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Congestive heart failure: Fluid retention may occur and can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk. Consider the risks and benefits of OSENI prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure. Monitor patients at risk for heart failure for signs and symptoms. If heart failure develops, evaluate and manage according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of OSENI. (5.1) -Acute pancreatitis: There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue OSENI. (5.2) -Hypersensitivity: There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin such as anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. In such cases, promptly discontinue OSENI, assess for other potential causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.3) -Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt OSENI and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart OSENI if liver injury is confirmed and no alternative etiology can be found. Use with caution in patients with liver disease. (5.4) -Edema: Dose-related edema may occur. (5.5) -Fractures: Increased incidence in female patients. Apply current standards of care for assessing and maintaining bone health. (5.6) -Bladder cancer: Preclinical and clinical trial data, and results from an observational study suggest an increased risk of bladder cancer in pioglitazone users. The observational data further suggest that the risk increases with duration of use. Do not use in patients with active bladder cancer. Use caution when using in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. (5.7) -Hypoglycemia: When an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin is used in combination with OSENI, a lower dose of insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.8) -Macular edema: Postmarketing reports. Recommend regular eye exams in all patients with diabetes according to current standards of care with prompt evaluation for acute visual changes. (5.9) -Arthralgia: Severe and disabling arthralgia has been reported in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue if appropriate. (5.11) -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with OSENI or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.12) 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure Consider the risks and benefits of OSENI prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure, such as those with a prior history of heart failure and a history of renal impairment, and observe these patients for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure. Patients should be advised of the characteristic symptoms of congestive heart failure and should be instructed to immediately report such symptoms. If congestive heart failure develops, it should be managed according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of OSENI. Alogliptin In the EXAMINE trial which enrolled patients with type 2 diabetes and recent acute coronary syndrome, 106 (3.9%) of patients treated with alogliptin and 89 (3.3%) of patients treated with placebo were hospitalized for congestive heart failure. Pioglitazone Pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, can cause dose-related fluid retention when used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications and is most common when pioglitazone is used in combination with insulin. Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning , Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 5.2 Pancreatitis Acute pancreatitis has been reported in the postmarketing setting and in randomized clinical trials. In glycemic control trials in patients with type 2 diabetes, acute pancreatitis was reported in 6 (0.2%) patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and 2 (<0.1%) patients treated with active comparators or placebo. In the EXAMINE trial (a cardiovascular outcomes trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular (CV) risk), acute pancreatitis was reported in 10 (0.4%) of patients treated with alogliptin and in 7 (0.3%) of patients treated with placebo. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for pancreatitis while using OSENI. After initiation of OSENI, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, OSENI should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin. These reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, discontinue OSENI, assess for other potential causes for the event and institute alternative treatment for diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Use caution in patients with a history of angioedema with another dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with OSENI. 5.4 Hepatic Effects There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure in patients taking pioglitazone or alogliptin, although some of the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . In glycemic control trials of alogliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were reported in 1.3% of patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and 1.7% of patients treated with active comparators or placebo. In the EXAMINE trial (a cardiovascular outcomes trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular (CV) risk), increases in serum alanine aminotransferase three times the upper limit of the reference range occurred in 2.4% of patients treated with alogliptin and in 1.8% of patients treated with placebo. Patients with type 2 diabetes may have fatty liver disease or cardiac disease with episodic congestive heart failure, both of which may cause liver test abnormalities, and they may also have other forms of liver disease, many of which can be treated or managed. Therefore, obtaining a liver test panel (ALT, aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin) and assessing the patient is recommended before initiating OSENI therapy. In patients with abnormal liver tests, OSENI should be initiated with caution. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have abnormal liver tests (ALT greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range), OSENI treatment should be interrupted and an investigation done to establish the probable cause. OSENI should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. 5.5 Edema Pioglitazone In controlled clinical trials, edema was reported more frequently in patients treated with pioglitazone than in placebo-treated patients and is dose-related [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. In postmarketing experience, reports of new onset or worsening of edema have been received. OSENI should be used with caution in patients with edema. Because thiazolidinediones, including pioglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, OSENI should be used with caution in patients at risk for congestive heart failure. Patients treated with OSENI should be monitored for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Patient Counseling Information (17.1)]. 5.6 Fractures Pioglitazone In PROactive (the Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events), 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. During a mean follow-up of 34.5 months, the incidence of bone fracture in females was 5.1% (44/870) for pioglitazone versus 2.5% (23/905) for placebo. This difference was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the study. The majority of fractures observed in female patients were nonvertebral fractures including lower limb and distal upper limb. No increase in the incidence of fracture was observed in men treated with pioglitazone (1.7%) versus placebo (2.1%). The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients, especially female patients, treated with pioglitazone and attention should be given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.7 Urinary Bladder Tumors Pioglitazone Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. A five-year interim report of an ongoing 10-year observational cohort study found a nonsignificant increase in the risk for bladder cancer in subjects ever exposed to pioglitazone, compared to subjects never exposed to pioglitazone (HR 1.2 [95% CI 0.9-1.5]). Compared to never exposure, a duration of pioglitazone therapy longer than 12 months was associated with an increase in risk (HR 1.4 [95% CI 0.9-2.1]), which reached statistical significance after more than 24 months of pioglitazone use (HR 1.4 [95% CI 1.03-2.0]). Interim results from this study suggested that taking pioglitazone longer than 12 months increased the relative risk of developing bladder cancer in any given year by 40%, which equates to an absolute increase of three cases in 10,000 (from approximately seven in 10,000 [without pioglitazone] to approximately 10 in 10,000 [with pioglitazone]). There are insufficient data to determine whether pioglitazone is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors. Consequently, pioglitazone should not be used in patients with active bladder cancer and the benefits of glycemic control versus unknown risks for cancer recurrence with pioglitazone should be considered in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. 5.8 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulfonylureas, are known to cause hypoglycemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with OSENI. 5.9 Macular Edema Pioglitazone Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in diabetic patients who were taking pioglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but others were diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist according to current standards of care. Patients with diabetes who report any visual symptoms should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient's underlying medications or other physical findings [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.10 Ovulation Pioglitazone Therapy with pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking OSENI [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. This effect has not been investigated in clinical trials, so the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Adequate contraception in all premenopausal women treated with OSENI is recommended. 5.11 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years. Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication. A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. Consider DPP-4 inhibitors as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. 5.12 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with OSENI or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Congestive heart failure: Fluid retention may occur and can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms. (5.1) -Acute pancreatitis: There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets. (5.2) -Hypersensitivity: There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin such as anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions. In such cases, promptly discontinue alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets, assess for other potential causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.3) -Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets if liver injury is confirmed and no alternative etiology can be found. Use with caution in patients with liver disease. (5.4) -Edema: Dose-related edema may occur. (5.5) -Fractures: Increased incidence in female patients. Apply current standards of care for assessing and maintaining bone health. (5.6) -Bladder cancer: Preclinical and clinical trial data, and results from an observational study suggest an increased risk of bladder cancer in pioglitazone users. The observational data further suggest that the risk increases with duration of use. Do not use in patients with active bladder cancer. Use caution when using in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. (5.7) -Hypoglycemia: When an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin is used in combination with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets, a lower dose of insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.8) -Macular edema: Postmarketing reports. Recommend regular eye exams in all patients with diabetes according to current standards of care with prompt evaluation for acute visual changes. (5.9) -Arthralgia: Severe and disabling arthralgia has been reported in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue if appropriate. (5.11) -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.12) 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure Pioglitazone Pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, can cause dose-related fluid retention when used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications and is most common when pioglitazone is used in combination with insulin. Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate congestive heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure. If congestive heart failure develops, it should be managed according to current standards of care and discontinuation or dose reduction of pioglitazone must be considered [see Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.2 Pancreatitis There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis in patients taking alogliptin. After initiation of alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets, patients should be observed carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin. These reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, discontinue alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets, assess for other potential causes for the event and institute alternative treatment for diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Use caution in patients with a history of angioedema to another DPP-4 inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets. 5.4 Hepatic Effects There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and nonfatal hepatic events in patients taking pioglitazone or alogliptin, although the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. There has been no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone controlled clinical trial database to date [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. In randomized controlled studies of alogliptin, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were observed: 1.3% in alogliptin-treated patients and 1.5% in all comparator-treated patients. Patients with type 2 diabetes may have fatty liver disease or cardiac disease with episodic congestive heart failure, both of which may cause liver test abnormalities, and they may also have other forms of liver disease, many of which can be treated or managed. Therefore, obtaining a liver test panel (ALT, aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin) and assessing the patient is recommended before initiating alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets therapy. In patients with abnormal liver tests, alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets should be initiated with caution. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have abnormal liver tests (ALT greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range), alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets treatment should be interrupted and an investigation done to establish the probable cause. Alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. 5.5 Edema Pioglitazone In controlled clinical trials, edema was reported more frequently in patients treated with pioglitazone than in placebo-treated patients and is dose-related [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. In postmarketing experience, reports of new onset or worsening of edema have been received. Alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets should be used with caution in patients with edema. Because thiazolidinediones, including pioglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets should be used with caution in patients at risk for congestive heart failure. Patients treated with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets should be monitored for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Patient Counseling Information (17.1)]. 5.6 Fractures Pioglitazone In PROactive (the Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events), 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. During a mean follow-up of 34.5 months, the incidence of bone fracture in females was 5.1% (44/870) for pioglitazone versus 2.5% (23/905) for placebo. This difference was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the study. The majority of fractures observed in female patients were nonvertebral fractures including lower limb and distal upper limb. No increase in the incidence of fracture was observed in men treated with pioglitazone (1.7%) versus placebo (2.1%). The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients, especially female patients, treated with pioglitazone and attention should be given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.7 Urinary Bladder Tumors Pioglitazone Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. A five-year interim report of an ongoing 10-year observational cohort study found a nonsignificant increase in the risk for bladder cancer in subjects ever exposed to pioglitazone, compared to subjects never exposed to pioglitazone (HR 1.2 [95% CI 0.9-1.5]). Compared to never exposure, a duration of pioglitazone therapy longer than 12 months was associated with an increase in risk (HR 1.4 [95% CI 0.9-2.1]), which reached statistical significance after more than 24 months of pioglitazone use (HR 1.4 [95% CI 1.03-2.0]). Interim results from this study suggested that taking pioglitazone longer than 12 months increased the relative risk of developing bladder cancer in any given year by 40%, which equates to an absolute increase of three cases in 10,000 (from approximately seven in 10,000 [without pioglitazone] to approximately 10 in 10,000 [with pioglitazone]). There are insufficient data to determine whether pioglitazone is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors. Consequently, pioglitazone should not be used in patients with active bladder cancer and the benefits of glycemic control versus unknown risks for cancer recurrence with pioglitazone should be considered in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. 5.8 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulfonylureas, are known to cause hypoglycemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets. 5.9 Macular Edema Pioglitazone Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in diabetic patients who were taking pioglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but others were diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist according to current standards of care. Patients with diabetes who report any visual symptoms should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient's underlying medications or other physical findings [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.10 Ovulation Pioglitazone Therapy with pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. This effect has not been investigated in clinical trials, so the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Adequate contraception in all premenopausal women treated with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets is recommended. 5.11 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years. Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication. A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. Consider DPP-4 inhibitors as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. 5.12 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Lactic acidosis: See boxed warning. (5.1) Acute pancreatitis: There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue KAZANO. (5.2) Heart failure: Consider the risks and benefits of KAZANO prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure. If heart failure develops, evaluate and manage according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of KAZANO (5.3). Hypersensitivity: There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin such as anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. In such cases, promptly discontinue KAZANO, assess for other potential causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.4) Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt KAZANO and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart KAZANO if liver injury is confirmed and no alternative etiology can be found. (5.5) Vitamin B12 deficiency: Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels. Monitor hematologic parameters annually. (5.6) Hypoglycemia: When used with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or with insulin, a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.7) Arthralgia: Severe and disabling arthralgia has been reported in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. (5.8) Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with KAZANO or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.9) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis Lactic Acidosis There have been postmarketing cases of metformin-associated lactic acidosis, including fatal cases. These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, myalgias, abdominal pain, respiratory distress, or increased somnolence; however, hypothermia, hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis. Metformin-associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations (greater than 5 mmol/L), anion gap acidosis (without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia), and an increased lactate:pyruvate ratio; metformin plasma levels generally greater than 5 mcg/mL. Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis, especially in patients at risk. If metformin-associated lactic acidosis is suspected, general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting, along with immediate discontinuation of KAZANO. In KAZANO-treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis, prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin (metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable, with a clearance of up to 170 mL/min under good hemodynamic conditions). Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery. Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and if these symptoms occur instruct them to discontinue KAZANO and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider. For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin-associated lactic acidosis, recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin-associated lactic acidosis are provided below: Renal Impairment The postmarketing metformin-associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment. The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin-associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Before initiating KAZANO, obtain an eGFR. KAZANO is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2. KAZANO is not recommended in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 because these patients require a lower dosage of alogliptin than what is available in the fixed combination KAZANO product. Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking KAZANO. In patients at increased risk for the development of renal impairment (e.g., the elderly), renal function should be assessed more frequently. Drug Interactions The concomitant use of KAZANO with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin-associated lactic acidosis: those that impair renal function, result in significant hemodynamic change, interfere with acid-base balance or increase metformin accumulation (e.g. cationic drugs) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Therefore, consider more frequent monitoring of patients. Age 65 or Greater The risk of metformin-associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient's age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic, renal, or cardiac impairment than younger patients. Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Radiological Studies with Contrast Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin-treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis. Stop KAZANO at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m2; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment, alcoholism, or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure, and restart KAZANO if renal function is stable. Surgery and Other Procedures Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion, hypotension and renal impairment. KAZANO should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake. Hypoxic States Several of the postmarketing cases of metformin-associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure (particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia). Cardiovascular collapse (shock), acute myocardial infarction, sepsis, and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia. When such events occur, discontinue KAZANO. Excessive Alcohol Intake Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism and this may increase the risk of metformin-associated lactic acidosis. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving KAZANO. Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment have developed with cases of metformin-associated lactic acidosis. This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels. Therefore, avoid use of KAZANO in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease. 5.2 Pancreatitis Acute pancreatitis has been reported in the postmarketing setting and in randomized clinical trials. In glycemic control trials in patients with type 2 diabetes, acute pancreatitis was reported in 6 (0.2%) patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and 2 (<0.1%) patients treated with active comparators or placebo. In the EXAMINE trial (a cardiovascular outcomes trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular (CV) risk), acute pancreatitis was reported in 10 (0.4%) of patients treated with alogliptin and in 7 (0.3%) of patients treated with placebo. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for pancreatitis while using KAZANO. After initiation of KAZANO, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, alogliptin should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. 5.3 Heart Failure In the EXAMINE trial which enrolled patients with type 2 diabetes and recent acute coronary syndrome, 106 (3.9%) of patients treated with alogliptin and 89 (3.3%) of patients treated with placebo were hospitalized for congestive heart failure. Consider the risks and benefits of KAZANO prior to initiating treatment in patients at risk for heart failure, such as those with a prior history of heart failure and a history of renal impairment, and observe these patients for signs and symptoms of heart failure during therapy. Patients should be advised of the characteristic symptoms of heart failure and should be instructed to immediately report such symptoms. If heart failure develops, evaluate and manage according to current standards of care and consider discontinuation of KAZANO. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin. These reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, discontinue KAZANO, assess for other potential causes for the event and institute alternative treatment for diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Use caution in patients with a history of angioedema with another dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with KAZANO. 5.5 Hepatic Effects There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure in patients taking alogliptin, although some of the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. In glycemic control trials in patients with type 2 diabetes, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were reported in 1.3% of patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and 1.7% of patients treated with active comparators or placebo. In the EXAMINE trial (a cardiovascular outcomes trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular (CV) risk), increases in serum alanine aminotransferase three times the upper limit of the reference range occurred in 2.4% of patients treated with alogliptin and in 1.8% of patients treated with placebo. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have clinically significant liver enzyme elevations and if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, KAZANO should be interrupted and investigation done to establish the probable cause. KAZANO should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. 5.6 Vitamin B12 Levels In controlled, 29-week clinical trials of immediate-release metformin, a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels, without clinical manifestations, was observed in approximately 7% of patients. Such decrease, possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12-intrinsic factor complex is, however, very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation. Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on KAZANO, and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed. Certain individuals (those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels. In these patients, routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at two- to three-year intervals may be useful. 5.7 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia Alogliptin Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulfonylureas, are known to cause hypoglycemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with KAZANO. Metformin Hydrochloride Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use but could occur when caloric intake is deficient, when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation or during concomitant use with other glucose-lowering agents (such as sulfonylureas and insulin) or ethanol. Elderly, debilitated or malnourished patients and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects. Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly and in people who are taking \\316\\262-adrenergic blocking drugs. 5.8 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years. Patients experienced relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication. A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. Consider DPP-4 inhibitors as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. 5.9 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with KAZANO or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Lactic acidosis: Warn against excessive alcohol intake. Alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets are not recommended in hepatic impairment and are contraindicated in renal impairment. Ensure normal renal function before initiating and at least annually thereafter. (5.1) -Acute pancreatitis: There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, promptly discontinue alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets. (5.2) -Hypersensitivity: There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin such as anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions. In such cases, promptly discontinue alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets, assess for other potential causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.3) -Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets if liver injury is confirmed and no alternative etiology can be found. (5.4) -Temporarily discontinue in patients undergoing radiologic studies with intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials or any surgical procedures necessitating restricted intake of food and fluids. (5.5) -Vitamin B12 deficiency: Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels. Monitor hematologic parameters annually. (5.8) -Hypoglycemia: When used with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or with insulin, a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.9) -Arthralgia: Severe and disabling arthralgia has been reported in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. Consider as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. (5.10) -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.11) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis Lactic acidosis is a rare but serious metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets and is fatal in approximately 50% of cases. Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions, including diabetes mellitus, and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia. Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels (more than 5 mmol/L), decreased blood pH, electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap, and an increased lactate/pyruvate ratio. When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis, metformin plasma levels of more than 5 mcg/mL are generally found. The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin HCl is very low (approximately 0.03 cases per 1000 patient-years, with approximately 0.015 fatal cases per 1000 patient-years). In more than 20,000 patient-years' exposure to metformin in clinical trials, there were no reports of lactic acidosis. Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal impairment, including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion, often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical/surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications. Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management, particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia due to unstable or acute failure, are at increased risk of lactic acidosis. The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient's age. The risk of lactic acidosis may, therefore, be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking metformin. In particular, treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function. Metformin treatment should not be initiated in any patients unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced, as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis. In addition, metformin should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia, dehydration or sepsis. Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate, metformin should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic impairment. Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake when taking metformin, because alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin on lactate metabolism. In addition, metformin should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure necessitating restricted intake of food or fluids. Use of topiramate, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, in epilepsy and migraine prophylaxis may frequently cause dose-dependent metabolic acidosis (in controlled trials, 32% and 67% for adjunctive treatment in adult and pediatric patients, respectively, and 15% to 25% for monotherapy of epilepsy, with decrease in serum bicarbonate to less than 20 mEq/L; 3% and 11% for adjunctive treatment in adult and pediatric patients, respectively, and 1% to 7% for monotherapy of epilepsy, with decrease in serum bicarbonate to less than 17 mEq/L) and may exacerbate the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, myalgias, respiratory distress, increasing somnolence and nonspecific abdominal distress. There may be associated hypothermia, hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis. Patients should be educated to promptly report these symptoms should they occur. If present, alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets should be withdrawn until lactic acidosis is ruled out. Serum electrolytes, ketones, blood glucose, blood pH, lactate levels and blood metformin levels may be useful. Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin, GI symptoms, which are common during initiation of therapy, are unlikely to recur. Later occurrence of GI symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease. Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol/L in patients taking metformin do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity, vigorous physical activity or technical problems in sample handling. Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis (ketonuria and ketonemia). Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting. In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking metformin, the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted. Because metformin is dialyzable (with a clearance of up to 170 mL/min under good hemodynamic conditions), prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin. Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.2 Pancreatitis There have been postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis in patients taking alogliptin. After initiation of alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets, patients should be observed carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. If pancreatitis is suspected, alogliptin should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with alogliptin. These reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a serious hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, discontinue alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets, assess for other potential causes for the event and institute alternative treatment for diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Use caution in patients with a history of angioedema to another DPP-4 inhibitor because it is unknown whether such patients will be predisposed to angioedema with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets. 5.4 Hepatic Effects There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure in patients taking alogliptin, although the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. In randomized controlled studies, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were observed: 1.3% in alogliptin-treated patients and 1.5% in all comparator-treated patients. Patients with type 2 diabetes may have fatty liver disease, which may cause liver test abnormalities, and they may also have other forms of liver disease, many of which can be treated or managed. Therefore, obtaining a liver test panel and assessing the patient before initiating alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets therapy is recommended. Because impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis with use of metformin, alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have clinically significant liver enzyme elevations and if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets should be interrupted and investigation done to establish the probable cause. Alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. 5.5 Monitoring of Renal Function Metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment. Therefore, alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets are contraindicated in patients with renal impairment. Before initiation of alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets therapy and at least annually thereafter, renal function should be assessed and verified as normal. In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated, renal function should be assessed more frequently and alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present. Metformin treatment should not be initiated in patients >=80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced, as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis. Use of Concomitant Medications that May Affect Renal Function or Metformin Disposition Concomitant medication(s) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or may interfere with the disposition of metformin, such as cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion [see Drug Interactions (7.2)], should be used with caution. Radiological Studies and Surgical Procedures Radiological studies involving the use of intravascular iodinated contrast materials (for example, intravenous urogram, intravenous cholangiography, angiography and computed tomography) can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin. Therefore, in patients in whom any such study is planned, alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be normal. Alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets therapy should be temporarily suspended for any surgical procedure (except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids) and should not be restarted until the patient's oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal. 5.6 Hypoxic States Cardiovascular collapse (shock) from whatever cause, acute congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia. When such events occur in patients on alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets therapy, the drug should be promptly discontinued. 5.7 Alcohol Intake Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Patients, therefore, should be warned against excessive alcohol intake while receiving alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets. 5.8 Vitamin B12 Levels In controlled, 29-week clinical trials of immediate-release metformin, a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels, without clinical manifestations, was observed in approximately 7% of patients. Such decrease, possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12-intrinsic factor complex is, however, very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation. Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets, and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed. Certain individuals (those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels. In these patients, routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at two- to three-year intervals may be useful. 5.9 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia Alogliptin Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulfonylureas, are known to cause hypoglycemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets. Metformin Hydrochloride Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use but could occur when caloric intake is deficient, when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation or during concomitant use with other glucose-lowering agents (such as sulfonylureas and insulin) or ethanol. Elderly, debilitated or malnourished patients and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects. Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly and in people who are taking \\316\\262-adrenergic blocking drugs. 5.10 Severe and Disabling Arthralgia There have been postmarketing reports of severe and disabling arthralgia in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors. The time to onset of symptoms following initiation of drug therapy varied from one day to years. Patients experienced a relief of symptoms upon discontinuation of the medication. A subset of patients experienced a recurrence of symptoms when restarting the same drug or a different DPP-4 inhibitor. Consider DPP-4 inhibitors as a possible cause for severe joint pain and discontinue drug if appropriate. 5.11 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions (reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin tablets 25 mg and more frequently than in patients who received placebo) are: nasopharyngitis, headache and upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-TAKEDA-7 (1-877-825-3327) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Approximately 8500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with alogliptin tablets in 14 randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials with approximately 2900 subjects randomized to placebo and approximately 2200 to an active comparator. The mean exposure to alogliptin tablets was 40 weeks with more than 2400 subjects treated for more than one year. Among these patients, 63% had a history of hypertension, 51% had a history of dyslipidemia, 25% had a history of myocardial infarction, 8% had a history of unstable angina and 7% had a history of congestive heart failure. The mean duration of diabetes was seven years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (51% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2), and the mean age was 57 years (24% of patients >=65 years of age). Two placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of 12 and 26 weeks of duration were conducted in patients treated with alogliptin tablets 12.5 mg daily, alogliptin tablets 25 mg daily and placebo. Four placebo-controlled add-on combination therapy trials of 26 weeks duration were also conducted: with metformin, with a sulfonylurea, with a thiazolidinedione and with insulin. Four placebo-controlled and one active-controlled trials of 16 weeks up through two years in duration were conducted in combination with metformin, in combination with pioglitazone and with pioglitazone added to a background of metformin therapy. Three active-controlled trials of 52 weeks in duration were conducted in patients treated with pioglitazone and metformin, in combination with metformin and as monotherapy compared to glipizide. In a pooled analysis of these 14 controlled clinical trials, the overall incidence of adverse events was 66% in patients treated with alogliptin tablets 25 mg compared to 62% with placebo and 70% with active comparator. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events was 4.7% with alogliptin tablets 25 mg compared to 4.5% with placebo or 6.2% with active comparator. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin tablets 25 mg and more frequently than in patients who received placebo are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% Patients Treated with Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg and More Frequently Than in Patients Given Placebo in Pooled Studies Number of Patients (%) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg Placebo Active Comparator N=5902 N=2926 N=2257 Nasopharyngitis 257 (4.4) 89 (3.0) 113 (5.0) Headache 247 (4.2) 72 (2.5) 121 (5.4) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 247 (4.2) 61 (2.1) 113 (5.0) Pancreatitis In the clinical trial program, pancreatitis was reported in 11 of 5902 (0.2%) patients receiving alogliptin tablets 25 mg daily compared to five of 5183 (<0.1%) patients receiving all comparators. Hypersensitivity Reactions In a pooled analysis, the overall incidence of hypersensitivity reactions was 0.6% with alogliptin tablets 25 mg compared to 0.8% with all comparators. A single event of serum sickness was reported in a patient treated with alogliptin tablets 25 mg. Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemic events were documented based upon a blood glucose value and/or clinical signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. In the monotherapy study, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 1.5% in patients treated with alogliptin tablets compared to 1.6% with placebo. The use of alogliptin tablets as add-on therapy to glyburide or insulin did not increase the incidence of hypoglycemia compared to placebo. In a monotherapy study comparing alogliptin tablets to a sulfonylurea in elderly patients, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 5.4% with alogliptin tablets compared to 26% with glipizide (Table 2). Table 2. Incidence and Rate of HypoglycemiaAdverse reactions of hypoglycemia were based on all reports of symptomatic and asymptomatic hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required; intent-to-treat population. in Placebo and Active-Controlled Studies when Alogliptin Tablets Were Used as Add-On Therapy to Glyburide, Insulin, Metformin, Pioglitazone or Compared to Glipizide Add-On to Glyburide (26 Weeks) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg + Glyburide Placebo + Glyburide N=198 N=99 Overall (%) 19 (9.6) 11 (11.1) Severe (%)Severe events of hypoglycemia were defined as those events requiring medical assistance or exhibiting depressed level or loss of consciousness or seizure. 0 1 (1) Add-On to Insulin (\\302\\261 Metformin) (26 Weeks) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg + Insulin (\\302\\261 Metformin) Placebo + Insulin (\\302\\261 Metformin) N=129 N=129 Overall (%) 35 (27) 31 (24) Severe (%) 1 (0.8) 2 (1.6) Add-On to Metformin (26 Weeks) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg + Metformin Placebo + Metformin N=207 N=104 Overall (%) 0 3 (2.9) Severe (%) 0 0 Add-On to Pioglitazone (\\302\\261 Metformin or Sulfonylurea) (26 Weeks) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg + Pioglitazone Placebo + Pioglitazone N=199 N=97 Overall (%) 14 (7.0) 5 (5.2) Severe (%) 0 1 (1) Compared to Glipizide (52 Weeks) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg Glipizide N=222 N=219 Overall (%) 12 (5.4) 57 (26) Severe (%) 0 3 (1.4) Add-On to Metformin (26 Weeks) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg Metformin 500 mg twice daily N=112 N=109 Overall (%) 2 (1.8) 2 (1.8) Severe (%) 0 0 Add-On to Metformin Compared to Glipizide (52 Weeks) Alogliptin Tablets 25 mg + Metformin Glipizide + Metformin N=877 N=869 Overall (%) 12 (1.4) 207 (23.8) Severe (%) 0 4 (0.5) Vital Signs No clinically meaningful changes in vital signs or in electrocardiograms were observed in patients treated with alogliptin tablets. Laboratory Tests No clinically meaningful changes in hematology, serum chemistry or urinalysis were observed in patients treated with alogliptin tablets. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of alogliptin tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failure, severe and disabling arthralgia and acute pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.5)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with coadministration of alogliptin 25 mg and pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg or 45 mg were nasopharyngitis, back pain and upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-TAKEDA-7 (1-877-825-3327) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Alogliptin and Pioglitazone Over 1500 patients with type 2 diabetes have received alogliptin coadministered with pioglitazone in four large, randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials. The mean exposure to alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets was 29 weeks with more than 100 subjects treated for more than one year. The studies consisted of two placebo-controlled studies of 16 to 26 weeks in duration and two active-controlled studies of 26 weeks and 52 weeks in duration. In the alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets arm, the mean duration of diabetes was approximately six years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (54% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2), and the mean age was 54 years (16% of patients >=65 years of age). In a pooled analysis of these four controlled clinical studies, the overall incidence of adverse events was 65% in patients treated with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets compared to 57% treated with placebo. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events was 2.5% with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets compared to 2.0% with placebo, 3.7% with pioglitazone or 1.3% with alogliptin. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets and more frequently than in patients who received alogliptin, pioglitazone or placebo are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% of Patients Treated with Alogliptin and Pioglitazone Tablets and More Frequently than in Patients Receiving Either Alogliptin, Pioglitazone or Placebo Number of Patients (%) Alogliptin and Pioglitazone Tablets Alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 mg and 12.5 mg combined with pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg Alogliptin Alogliptin - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 mg and 12.5 mg Pioglitazone Pioglitazone - includes data pooled for patients receiving pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg Placebo N=1533 N=446 N=949 N=153 Nasopharyngitis 75 (4.9) 21 (4.7) 37 (3.9) 6 (3.9) Back Pain 64 (4.2) 9 (2.0) 32 (3.4) 5 (3.3) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 63 (4.1) 19 (4.3) 26 (2.7) 5 (3.3) Alogliptin Add-On Therapy to a Thiazolidinedione In addition, in a 26-week, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, patients inadequately controlled on a thiazolidinedione alone or in combination with metformin or a sulfonylurea were treated with add-on alogliptin therapy or placebo; the adverse reactions reported in >=5% of patients and more frequently than in patients who received placebo was influenza (alogliptin, 5.5%; placebo, 4.1%). Hypoglycemia In a 26-week, placebo-controlled factorial study with alogliptin in combination with pioglitazone on background therapy with metformin, the incidence of subjects reporting hypoglycemia was 0.8%, 0% and 3.8% for alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg or 45 mg, respectively; 2.3% for alogliptin 25 mg; 4.7%, 0.8% and 0.8% for pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg or 45 mg, respectively; and 0.8% for placebo. In a 26-week, active-controlled, double-blind study with alogliptin alone, pioglitazone alone or alogliptin coadministered with pioglitazone in patients inadequately controlled on diet and exercise, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 3% on alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 30 mg, 0.6% on alogliptin 25 mg and 1.8% on pioglitazone 30 mg. In a 52-week, active-controlled, double-blind study of alogliptin as add-on therapy to the combination of pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin compared to the titration of pioglitazone 30 mg to 45 mg and metformin, the incidence of subjects reporting hypoglycemia was 4.5% in the alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin group versus 1.5% in the pioglitazone 45 mg and metformin group. Alogliptin Approximately 8500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with alogliptin in 14 randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials with approximately 2900 subjects randomized to placebo and approximately 2200 to an active comparator. The mean exposure to alogliptin was 40 weeks with more than 2400 subjects treated for more than one year. Among these patients, 63% had a history of hypertension, 51% had a history of dyslipidemia, 25% had a history of myocardial infarction, 8% had a history of unstable angina and 7% had a history of congestive heart failure. The mean duration of diabetes was seven years, the mean BMI was 31 kg/m2 (51% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2) and the mean age was 57 years (24% of patients >=65 years of age). Two placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of 12 and 26 weeks in duration were conducted in patients treated with alogliptin 12.5 mg daily, alogliptin 25 mg daily and placebo. Four placebo-controlled add-on combination therapy trials of 26 weeks in duration were also conducted: with metformin, with a sulfonylurea, with a thiazolidinedione and with insulin. Four placebo-controlled and one active-controlled trials of 16 weeks up through two years in duration were conducted in combination with metformin, in combination with pioglitazone and with pioglitazone added to a background of metformin therapy. Three active-controlled trials of 52 weeks in duration were conducted in patients treated with pioglitazone and metformin, in combination with metformin and as monotherapy compared to glipizide. In a pooled analysis of these 14 controlled clinical trials, the overall incidence of adverse events was 66% in patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 62% with placebo and 70% with active comparator. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events was 4.7% with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 4.5% with placebo or 6.2% with active comparator. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and more frequently than in patients who received placebo are summarized in Table 2. Table 2. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% Patients Treated with Alogliptin 25 mg and More Frequently than in Patients Given Placebo in Pooled Studies Number of Patients (%) Alogliptin 25 mg Placebo Active Comparator N=5902 N=2926 N=2257 Nasopharyngitis 257 (4.4) 89 (3.0) 113 (5.0) Headache 247 (4.2) 72 (2.5) 121 (5.4) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 247 (4.2) 61 (2.1) 113 (5.0) Pancreatitis In the clinical trial program, pancreatitis was reported in 11 of 5902 (0.2%) patients receiving alogliptin 25 mg daily compared to five of 5183 (\\313\\2020.1%) patients receiving all comparators. Hypersensitivity Reactions In a pooled analysis, the overall incidence of hypersensitivity reactions was 0.6% with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 0.8% with all comparators. A single event of serum sickness was reported in a patient treated with alogliptin 25 mg. Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemic events were documented based upon a blood glucose value and/or clinical signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. In the monotherapy study, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 1.5% in patients treated with alogliptin compared to 1.6% with placebo. The use of alogliptin as add-on therapy to glyburide or insulin did not increase the incidence of hypoglycemia compared to placebo. In a monotherapy study comparing alogliptin to a sulfonylurea in elderly patients, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 5.4% with alogliptin compared to 26% with glipizide. Pioglitazone Over 8500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with pioglitazone in randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials, including 2605 patients with type 2 diabetes and macrovascular disease treated with pioglitazone in the PROactive clinical trial. In these trials, over 6000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for six months or longer, over 4500 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for one year or longer, and over 3000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for at least two years. Common Adverse Events: 16- to 26-Week Monotherapy Trials A summary of the incidence and type of common adverse events reported in three pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of pioglitazone is provided in Table 3. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. None of these adverse events were related to pioglitazone dose. Table 3. Three Pooled 16- to 26-Week Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Pioglitazone Monotherapy: Adverse Events Reported at an Incidence >5% and More Commonly in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone than in Patients Treated with Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=259 Pioglitazone N=606 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8.5 13.2 Headache 6.9 9.1 Sinusitis 4.6 6.3 Myalgia 2.7 5.4 Pharyngitis 0.8 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure for the 16- to 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trials, for the 16- to 24-week add-on to insulin trials, and for the 16- to 24-week add-on to metformin trials were (at least one congestive heart failure, 0.2% to 1.7%; hospitalized due to congestive heart failure, 0.2% to 0.9%). None of the events were fatal. Patients with type 2 diabetes and NYHA class II or early class III congestive heart failure were randomized to receive 24 weeks of double-blind treatment with either pioglitazone at daily doses of 30 mg to 45 mg (N=262) or glyburide at daily doses of 10 mg to 15 mg (N=256). A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure reported in this study is provided in Table 4. Table 4. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in Patients with NYHA Class II or III Congestive Heart Failure Treated with Pioglitazone or Glyburide Number (%) of Subjects Pioglitazone N=262 Glyburide N=256 Death due to cardiovascular causes (adjudicated) 5 (1.9%) 6 (2.3%) Overnight hospitalization for worsening CHF (adjudicated) 26 (9.9%) 12 (4.7%) Emergency room visit for CHF (adjudicated) 4 (1.5%) 3 (1.2%) Patients experiencing CHF progression during study 35 (13.4%) 21 (8.2%) Congestive heart failure events leading to hospitalization that occurred during the PROactive trial are summarized in Table 5. Table 5. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in PROactive Trial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 At least one hospitalized congestive heart failure event 108 (4.1%) 149 (5.7%) Fatal 22 (0.8%) 25 (1%) Hospitalized, nonfatal 86 (3.3%) 124 (4.7%) Cardiovascular Safety In the PROactive trial, 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. Almost all patients (95%) were receiving cardiovascular medications (beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, diuretics, aspirin, statins and fibrates). At baseline, patients had a mean age of 62 years, mean duration of diabetes of 9.5 years and mean A1C of 8.1%. Mean duration of follow-up was 34.5 months. The primary objective of this trial was to examine the effect of pioglitazone on mortality and macrovascular morbidity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were at high risk for macrovascular events. The primary efficacy variable was the time to the first occurrence of any event in a cardiovascular composite endpoint that included all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac intervention including coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous intervention, major leg amputation above the ankle and bypass surgery or revascularization in the leg. A total of 514 (19.7%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 572 (21.7%) placebo-treated patients experienced at least one event from the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio 0.90; 95% Confidence Interval: 0.80, 1.02; p=0.10). Although there was no statistically significant difference between pioglitazone and placebo for the three-year incidence of a first event within this composite, there was no increase in mortality or in total macrovascular events with pioglitazone. The number of first occurrences and total individual events contributing to the primary composite endpoint is shown in Table 6. Table 6. PROactive: Number of First and Total Events for Each Component Within the Cardiovascular Composite Endpoint Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 Cardiovascular Events First Events n (%) Total Events n First Events n (%) Total Events n CABG=coronary artery bypass grafting; PCI=percutaneous intervention Any Event 572 (21.7) 900 514 (19.7) 803 All-Cause Mortality 122 (4.6) 186 110 (4.2) 177 Nonfatal Myocardial Infarction (MI) 118 (4.5) 157 105 (4) 131 Stroke 96 (3.6) 119 76 (2.9) 92 Acute Coronary Syndrome 63 (2.4) 78 42 (1.6) 65 Cardiac Intervention (CABG/PCI) 101 (3.8) 240 101 (3.9) 195 Major Leg Amputation 15 (0.6) 28 9 (0.3) 28 Leg Revascularization 57 (2.2) 92 71 (2.7) 115 Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain occurs when pioglitazone is used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications. The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Edema Edema induced from taking pioglitazone is reversible when pioglitazone is discontinued. The edema usually does not require hospitalization unless there is coexisting congestive heart failure. Hepatic Effects There has been no evidence of pioglitazone-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone controlled clinical trial database to date. One randomized, double-blind, three-year trial comparing pioglitazone to glyburide as add-on to metformin and insulin therapy was specifically designed to evaluate the incidence of serum ALT elevation to greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range, measured every eight weeks for the first 48 weeks of the trial then every 12 weeks thereafter. A total of 3/1051 (0.3%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 9/1046 (0.9%) patients treated with glyburide developed ALT values greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range. None of the patients treated with pioglitazone in the pioglitazone controlled clinical trial database to date have had a serum ALT greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range and a corresponding total bilirubin greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range, a combination predictive of the potential for severe drug-induced liver injury. Hypoglycemia In the pioglitazone clinical trials, adverse events of hypoglycemia were reported based on clinical judgment of the investigators and did not require confirmation with fingerstick glucose testing. In the 16-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 3.7% with pioglitazone 30 mg and 0.5% with placebo. In the 16-week add-on to insulin trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 7.9% with pioglitazone 15 mg, 15.4% with pioglitazone 30 mg and 4.8% with placebo. The incidence of reported hypoglycemia was higher with pioglitazone 45 mg compared to pioglitazone 30 mg in both the 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial (15.7% versus 13.4%) and in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial (47.8% versus 43.5%). Three patients in these four trials were hospitalized due to hypoglycemia. All three patients were receiving pioglitazone 30 mg (0.9%) in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial. An additional 14 patients reported severe hypoglycemia (defined as causing considerable interference with patient's usual activities) that did not require hospitalization. These patients were receiving pioglitazone 45 mg in combination with sulfonylurea (N=2) or pioglitazone 30 mg or 45 mg in combination with insulin (N=12). Urinary Bladder Tumors Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. There are too few events of bladder cancer to establish causality. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Alogliptin No clinically meaningful changes in hematology, serum chemistry or urinalysis were observed in patients treated with alogliptin. Pioglitazone Hematologic Effects Pioglitazone may cause decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit. In placebo-controlled monotherapy trials, mean hemoglobin values declined by 2% to 4% in patients treated with pioglitazone compared with a mean change in hemoglobin of -1% to +1% in placebo-treated patients. These changes primarily occurred within the first four to 12 weeks of therapy and remained relatively constant thereafter. These changes may be related to increased plasma volume associated with pioglitazone therapy and are not likely to be associated with any clinically significant hematologic effects. Creatine Phosphokinase During protocol-specified measurement of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) in pioglitazone clinical trials, an isolated elevation in CPK to greater than 10 times the upper limit of the reference range was noted in nine (0.2%) patients treated with pioglitazone (values of 2150 to 11400 IU/L) and in no comparator-treated patients. Six of these nine patients continued to receive pioglitazone, two patients were noted to have the CPK elevation on the last day of dosing and one patient discontinued pioglitazone due to the elevation. These elevations resolved without any apparent clinical sequelae. The relationship of these events to pioglitazone therapy is unknown. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience Alogliptin The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of alogliptin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failure, severe and disabling arthralgia and acute pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.11)]. Pioglitazone The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of pioglitazone. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. New onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure have been reported in patients treated with pioglitazone, both with and without previously known heart disease and both with and without concomitant insulin administration. In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with coadministration of alogliptin with metformin were: upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, diarrhea, hypertension, headache, back pain and urinary tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-TAKEDA-7 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Alogliptin and Metformin Hydrochloride Over 2700 patients with type 2 diabetes have received alogliptin coadministered with metformin in four large, randomized, double-blind controlled clinical trials. The mean exposure to alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets was 58 weeks, with more than 1400 subjects treated for more than one year. These included two 26-week placebo-controlled studies, one 52-week active control study and an interim analysis of a 104-week active-controlled study. In the alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets arm, the mean duration of diabetes was approximately six years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (56% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2) and the mean age was 55 years (18% of patients >=65 years of age). In a pooled analysis of these four controlled clinical studies, the overall incidence of adverse reactions was 74% in patients treated with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets compared to 75% treated with placebo. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events was 6.2% with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets compared to 1.9% in placebo, 6.4% in metformin and 5.0% in alogliptin. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets and more frequently than in patients who received alogliptin, metformin or placebo are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% of Patients Treated with Alogliptin and Metformin HCl Tablets and More Frequently than in Patients Receiving Either Alogliptin, Metformin or Placebo Number of Patients (%) Alogliptin and Metformin HCl Tablets Alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 and 12.5 mg combined with various dose of metformin Alogliptin Alogliptin - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 and 12.5 mg Metformin Metformin - includes data pooled for patients receiving various doses of metformin Placebo N=2794 N=222 N=1592 N=106 Upper respiratory tract infection 224 (8.0) 6 (2.7) 105 (6.6) 3 (2.8) Nasopharyngitis 191 (6.8) 7 (3.2) 93 (5.8) 2 (1.9) Diarrhea 155 (5.5) 4 (1.8) 105 (6.6) 3 (2.8) Hypertension 154 (5.5) 5 (2.3) 96 (6.0) 6 (5.7) Headache 149 (5.3) 11 (5.0) 74 (4.6) 3 (2.8) Back pain 119 (4.3) 1 (0.5) 72 (4.5) 1 (0.9) Urinary tract infection 116 (4.2) 4 (1.8) 59 (3.7) 2 (1.9) Hypoglycemia In a 26-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of alogliptin in combination with metformin, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemia was 1.9% in the alogliptin 12.5 mg with metformin HCl 500 mg, 5.3% in the alogliptin 12.5 mg with metformin HCl 1000 mg, 1.8% in the metformin HCl 500 mg and 6.3% in the metformin HCl 1000 mg treatment groups. In a 26-week placebo-controlled study of alogliptin 25 mg administered once daily as add-on to metformin regimen, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemic events was 0% in the alogliptin with metformin and 2.9% in the placebo treatment groups. In a 52-week, active-controlled, double-blind study of alogliptin once daily as add-on therapy to the combination of pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin compared to the titration of pioglitazone 30 mg to 45 mg and metformin, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemia was 4.5% in the alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin group versus 1.5% in the pioglitazone 45 mg with metformin group. In an interim analysis conducted in a 104-week, double-blind, active-controlled study of alogliptin 25 mg in combination with metformin, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemia was 1.4% in the alogliptin 25 mg with metformin group versus 23.8% in the glipizide with metformin group. Alogliptin Approximately 8500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with alogliptin in 14 randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials with approximately 2900 subjects randomized to placebo and approximately 2200 to an active comparator. The mean exposure to alogliptin was 40 weeks, with more than 2400 subjects treated for more than one year. Among these patients, 63% had a history of hypertension, 51% had a history of dyslipidemia, 25% had a history of myocardial infarction, 8% had a history of unstable angina and 7% had a history of congestive heart failure. The mean duration of diabetes was seven years, the mean BMI was 31 kg/m2 (51% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2) and the mean age was 57 years (24% of patients >=65 years of age). Two placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of 12 and 26 weeks of duration were conducted in patients treated with alogliptin 12.5 mg daily, alogliptin 25 mg daily and placebo. Four placebo-controlled add-on combination therapy trials of 26 weeks' duration were also conducted: with metformin, with a sulfonylurea, with a thiazolidinedione and with insulin. Four placebo-controlled and one active-controlled trials of 16 weeks up through two years in duration were conducted in combination with metformin, in combination with pioglitazone and with pioglitazone added to a background of metformin therapy. Three active-controlled trials of 52 weeks in duration were conducted in patients treated with pioglitazone and metformin, in combination with metformin and as monotherapy compared to glipizide. In a pooled analysis of these 14 controlled clinical trials, the overall incidence of adverse events was 66% in patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 62% with placebo and 70% with active comparator. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events was 4.7% with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 4.5% with placebo or 6.2% with active comparator. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and more frequently than in patients who received placebo are summarized in Table 2. Table 2. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% Patients Treated with Alogliptin 25 mg and More Frequently than in Patients Given Placebo in Pooled Studies Number of Patients (%) Alogliptin 25 mg Placebo Active Comparator N=5902 N=2926 N=2257 Nasopharyngitis 257 (4.4) 89 (3.0) 113 (5.0) Headache 247 (4.2) 72 (2.5) 121 (5.4) Upper respiratory tract infection 247 (4.2) 61 (2.1) 113 (5.0) Pancreatitis In the clinical trial program, pancreatitis was reported in 11 of 5902 (0.2%) patients receiving alogliptin 25 mg daily compared to five of 5183 (\\313\\2020.1%) patients receiving all comparators. Hypersensitivity Reactions In a pooled analysis, the overall incidence of hypersensitivity reactions was 0.6% with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 0.8% with all comparators. A single event of serum sickness was reported in a patient treated with alogliptin 25 mg. Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemic events were documented based upon a blood glucose value and/or clinical signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. In the monotherapy study, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 1.5% in patients treated with alogliptin compared to 1.6% with placebo. The use of alogliptin as add-on therapy to glyburide or insulin did not increase the incidence of hypoglycemia compared to placebo. In a monotherapy study comparing alogliptin to a sulfonylurea in elderly patients, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 5.4% with alogliptin compared to 26% with glipizide. Metformin Hydrochloride Table 3. Most Common Adverse Reactions (>=5%) in a Placebo-Controlled Clinical Study of Metformin MonotherapyReactions that were more common in metformin than placebo-treated patients Adverse Reaction Metformin Monotherapy (n=141) Placebo (n=145) % of Patients Diarrhea 53.2 11.7 Nausea/vomiting 25.5 8.3 Flatulence 12.1 5.5 Asthenia 9.2 5.5 Indigestion 7.1 4.1 Abdominal discomfort 6.4 4.8 Headache 5.7 4.8 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Alogliptin and Metformin Hydrochloride No clinically meaningful differences were observed among treatment groups regarding hematology, serum chemistry or urinalysis results. Alogliptin No clinically meaningful changes in hematology, serum chemistry or urinalysis were observed in patients treated with alogliptin. Metformin Hydrochloride Metformin may lower serum vitamin B12 concentrations. Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets, and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience Alogliptin The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of alogliptin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria, and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failure, severe and disabling arthralgia and acute pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.10)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below or elsewhere in the prescribing information: -Congestive Heart Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Hepatic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The most common adverse reactions (4% or greater incidence) are nasopharyngitis, back pain and upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-TAKEDA-7 (1-877-825-3327) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Alogliptin and Pioglitazone Over 1500 patients with type 2 diabetes have received alogliptin coadministered with pioglitazone in four large, randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials. The mean exposure to OSENI was 29 weeks with more than 100 subjects treated for more than one year. The studies consisted of two placebo-controlled studies of 16 to 26 weeks in duration and two active-controlled studies of 26 weeks and 52 weeks in duration. In the OSENI arm, the mean duration of diabetes was approximately six years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (54% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2), and the mean age was 54 years (16% of patients >=65 years of age). In a pooled analysis of these four controlled clinical studies, the overall incidence of adverse reactions was 65% in patients treated with OSENI compared to 57% treated with placebo. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions was 2.5% with OSENI compared to 2.0% with placebo, 3.7% with pioglitazone or 1.3% with alogliptin. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with OSENI and more frequently than in patients who received alogliptin, pioglitazone or placebo are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% of Patients Treated with OSENI and More Frequently than in Patients Receiving Either Alogliptin, Pioglitazone or Placebo Number of Patients (%) OSENI OSENI - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 mg and 12.5 mg combined with pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg Alogliptin Alogliptin - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 mg and 12.5 mg Pioglitazone Pioglitazone - includes data pooled for patients receiving pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg and 45 mg Placebo N=1533 N=446 N=949 N=153 Nasopharyngitis 75 (4.9) 21 (4.7) 37 (3.9) 6 (3.9) Back Pain 64 (4.2) 9 (2.0) 32 (3.4) 5 (3.3) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 63 (4.1) 19 (4.3) 26 (2.7) 5 (3.3) Alogliptin Add-On Therapy to a Thiazolidinedione In addition, in a 26-week, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, patients inadequately controlled on a thiazolidinedione alone or in combination with metformin or a sulfonylurea were treated with add-on alogliptin therapy or placebo; the adverse reactions reported in >=5% of patients and more frequently than in patients who received placebo was influenza (alogliptin, 5.5%; placebo, 4.1%). Hypoglycemia In a 26-week, placebo-controlled factorial study with alogliptin in combination with pioglitazone on background therapy with metformin, the incidence of subjects reporting hypoglycemia was 0.8%, 0% and 3.8% for alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg or 45 mg, respectively; 2.3% for alogliptin 25 mg; 4.7%, 0.8% and 0.8% for pioglitazone 15 mg, 30 mg or 45 mg, respectively; and 0.8% for placebo. In a 26-week, active-controlled, double-blind study with alogliptin alone, pioglitazone alone or alogliptin coadministered with pioglitazone in patients inadequately controlled on diet and exercise, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 3% on alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 30 mg, 0.6% on alogliptin 25 mg and 1.8% on pioglitazone 30 mg. In a 52-week, active-controlled, double-blind study of alogliptin as add-on therapy to the combination of pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin compared to the titration of pioglitazone 30 mg to 45 mg and metformin, the incidence of subjects reporting hypoglycemia was 4.5% in the alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin group versus 1.5% in the pioglitazone 45 mg and metformin group. Alogliptin A total of 14,778 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in 14 randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials of whom 9052 subjects were treated with alogliptin, 3469 subjects were treated with placebo and 2257 were treated with an active comparator. The mean duration of diabetes was seven years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (49% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2) and the mean age was 58 years (26% of patients >=65 years of age). The mean exposure to alogliptin was 49 weeks with 3348 subjects treated for more than one year. In a pooled analysis of these 14 controlled clinical trials, the overall incidence of adverse reactions was 73% in patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 75% with placebo and 70% with active comparator. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions was 6.8% with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 8.4% with placebo or 6.2% with active comparator. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and more frequently than in patients who received placebo are summarized in Table 2. Table 2. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% Patients Treated with Alogliptin 25 mg and More Frequently Than in Patients Given Placebo in Pooled Studies Number of Patients (%) Alogliptin 25 mg Placebo Active Comparator N=6447 N=3469 N=2257 Nasopharyngitis 309 (4.8) 152 (4.4) 113 (5.0) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 287 (4.5) 121 (3.5) 113 (5.0) Headache 278 (4.3) 101 (2.9) 121 (5.4) Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemic events were documented based upon a blood glucose value and/or clinical signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. In the monotherapy study, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 1.5% in patients treated with alogliptin compared to 1.6% with placebo. The use of alogliptin as add-on therapy to glyburide or insulin did not increase the incidence of hypoglycemia compared to placebo. In a monotherapy study comparing alogliptin to a sulfonylurea in elderly patients, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 5.4% with alogliptin compared to 26% with glipizide. In the EXAMINE trial, the incidence of investigator reported hypoglycemia was 6.7% in patients receiving alogliptin and 6.5% in patients receiving placebo. Serious adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were reported in 0.8% of patients treated with alogliptin and in 0.6% of patients treated with placebo. Renal Impairment In glycemic control trials in patients with type 2 diabetes, 3.4% of patients treated with alogliptin and 1.3% of patients treated with placebo had renal function adverse reactions. The most commonly reported adverse reactions were renal impairment (0.5% for alogliptin and 0.1% for active comparators or placebo), decreased creatinine clearance (1.6% for alogliptin and 0.5% for active comparators or placebo) and increased blood creatinine (0.5% for alogliptin and 0.3% for active comparators or placebo) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. In the EXAMINE trial of high CV risk type 2 diabetes patients, 23% of patients treated with alogliptin and 21% of patients treated with placebo had an investigator reported renal impairment adverse reaction. The most commonly reported adverse reactions were renal impairment (7.7% for alogliptin and 6.7% for placebo), decreased glomerular filtration rate (4.9% for alogliptin and 4.3% for placebo) and decreased renal clearance (2.2% for alogliptin and 1.8% for placebo). Laboratory measures of renal function were also assessed. Estimated glomerular filtration rate decreased by 25% or more in 21.1% of patients treated with alogliptin and 18.7% of patients treated with placebo. Worsening of chronic kidney disease stage was seen in 16.8% of patients treated with alogliptin and in 15.5% of patients treated with placebo. Pioglitazone Over 8500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with pioglitazone in randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials, including 2605 patients with type 2 diabetes and macrovascular disease treated with pioglitazone in the PROactive clinical trial. In these trials, over 6000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for six months or longer, over 4500 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for one year or longer, and over 3000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for at least two years. Common Adverse Reactions: 16- to 26-Week Monotherapy Trials A summary of the incidence and type of common adverse reactions reported in three pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of pioglitazone is provided in Table 3. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. None of these adverse reactions were related to pioglitazone dose. Table 3. Three Pooled 16- to 26-Week Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Pioglitazone Monotherapy: Adverse Reactions Reported at an Incidence >5% and More Commonly in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone than in Patients Treated with Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=259 Pioglitazone N=606 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8.5 13.2 Headache 6.9 9.1 Sinusitis 4.6 6.3 Myalgia 2.7 5.4 Pharyngitis 0.8 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure A summary of the incidence of adverse reactions related to congestive heart failure for the 16- to 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trials, for the 16- to 24-week add-on to insulin trials, and for the 16- to 24-week add-on to metformin trials were (at least one congestive heart failure, 0.2% to 1.7%; hospitalized due to congestive heart failure, 0.2% to 0.9%). None of the reactions were fatal. Patients with type 2 diabetes and NYHA class II or early class III congestive heart failure were randomized to receive 24 weeks of double-blind treatment with either pioglitazone at daily doses of 30 mg to 45 mg (N=262) or glyburide at daily doses of 10 mg to 15 mg (N=256). A summary of the incidence of adverse reactions related to congestive heart failure reported in this study is provided in Table 4. Table 4. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in Patients with NYHA Class II or III Congestive Heart Failure Treated with Pioglitazone or Glyburide Number (%) of Subjects Pioglitazone N=262 Glyburide N=256 Death due to cardiovascular causes (adjudicated) 5 (1.9%) 6 (2.3%) Overnight hospitalization for worsening CHF (adjudicated) 26 (9.9%) 12 (4.7%) Emergency room visit for CHF (adjudicated) 4 (1.5%) 3 (1.2%) Patients experiencing CHF progression during study 35 (13.4%) 21 (8.2%) Congestive heart failure events leading to hospitalization that occurred during the PROactive trial are summarized in Table 5. Table 5. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in PROactive Trial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 At least one hospitalized congestive heart failure event 108 (4.1%) 149 (5.7%) Fatal 22 (0.8%) 25 (1%) Hospitalized, nonfatal 86 (3.3%) 124 (4.7%) Cardiovascular Safety In the PROactive trial, 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. Almost all patients (95%) were receiving cardiovascular medications (beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, diuretics, aspirin, statins and fibrates). At baseline, patients had a mean age of 62 years, mean duration of diabetes of 9.5 years and mean A1C of 8.1%. Mean duration of follow-up was 34.5 months. The primary objective of this trial was to examine the effect of pioglitazone on mortality and macrovascular morbidity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were at high risk for macrovascular events. The primary efficacy variable was the time to the first occurrence of any event in a cardiovascular composite endpoint that included all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac intervention including coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous intervention, major leg amputation above the ankle and bypass surgery or revascularization in the leg. A total of 514 (19.7%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 572 (21.7%) placebo-treated patients experienced at least one event from the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio 0.90; 95% Confidence Interval: 0.80, 1.02; p=0.10). Although there was no statistically significant difference between pioglitazone and placebo for the three-year incidence of a first event within this composite, there was no increase in mortality or in total macrovascular events with pioglitazone. The number of first occurrences and total individual events contributing to the primary composite endpoint is shown in Table 6. CABG=coronary artery bypass grafting; PCI=percutaneous intervention Table 6. PROactive: Number of First and Total Events for Each Component Within the Cardiovascular Composite Endpoint Cardiovascular Events Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 First Events n (%) Total Events n First Events n (%) Total Events n Any Event 572 (21.7) 900 514 (19.7) 803 All-Cause Mortality 122 (4.6) 186 110 (4.2) 177 Nonfatal Myocardial Infarction (MI) 118 (4.5) 157 105 (4) 131 Stroke 96 (3.6) 119 76 (2.9) 92 Acute Coronary Syndrome 63 (2.4) 78 42 (1.6) 65 Cardiac Intervention (CABG/PCI) 101 (3.8) 240 101 (3.9) 195 Major Leg Amputation 15 (0.6) 28 9 (0.3) 28 Leg Revascularization 57 (2.2) 92 71 (2.7) 115 Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain occurs when pioglitazone is used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications. The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Edema Edema induced from taking pioglitazone is reversible when pioglitazone is discontinued. The edema usually does not require hospitalization unless there is coexisting congestive heart failure. Hepatic Effects There has been no evidence of pioglitazone-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone controlled clinical trial database to date. One randomized, double-blind, three-year trial comparing pioglitazone to glyburide as add-on to metformin and insulin therapy was specifically designed to evaluate the incidence of serum ALT elevation to greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range, measured every eight weeks for the first 48 weeks of the trial then every 12 weeks thereafter. A total of 3/1051 (0.3%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 9/1046 (0.9%) patients treated with glyburide developed ALT values greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range. None of the patients treated with pioglitazone in the pioglitazone controlled clinical trial database to date have had a serum ALT greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range and a corresponding total bilirubin greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range, a combination predictive of the potential for severe drug-induced liver injury. Hypoglycemia In the pioglitazone clinical trials, adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were reported based on clinical judgment of the investigators and did not require confirmation with fingerstick glucose testing. In the 16-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 3.7% with pioglitazone 30 mg and 0.5% with placebo. In the 16-week add-on to insulin trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 7.9% with pioglitazone 15 mg, 15.4% with pioglitazone 30 mg and 4.8% with placebo. The incidence of reported hypoglycemia was higher with pioglitazone 45 mg compared to pioglitazone 30 mg in both the 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial (15.7% versus 13.4%) and in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial (47.8% versus 43.5%). Three patients in these four trials were hospitalized due to hypoglycemia. All three patients were receiving pioglitazone 30 mg (0.9%) in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial. An additional 14 patients reported severe hypoglycemia (defined as causing considerable interference with patient's usual activities) that did not require hospitalization. These patients were receiving pioglitazone 45 mg in combination with sulfonylurea (N=2) or pioglitazone 30 mg or 45 mg in combination with insulin (N=12). Urinary Bladder Tumors Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. There are too few events of bladder cancer to establish causality. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Pioglitazone Hematologic Effects Pioglitazone may cause decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit. In placebo-controlled monotherapy trials, mean hemoglobin values declined by 2% to 4% in patients treated with pioglitazone compared with a mean change in hemoglobin of -1% to +1% in placebo-treated patients. These changes primarily occurred within the first four to 12 weeks of therapy and remained relatively constant thereafter. These changes may be related to increased plasma volume associated with pioglitazone therapy and are not likely to be associated with any clinically significant hematologic effects. Creatine Phosphokinase During protocol-specified measurement of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) in pioglitazone clinical trials, an isolated elevation in CPK to greater than 10 times the upper limit of the reference range was noted in nine (0.2%) patients treated with pioglitazone (values of 2150 to 11400 IU/L) and in no comparator-treated patients. Six of these nine patients continued to receive pioglitazone, two patients were noted to have the CPK elevation on the last day of dosing and one patient discontinued pioglitazone due to the elevation. These elevations resolved without any apparent clinical sequelae. The relationship of these events to pioglitazone therapy is unknown. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience Alogliptin The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of alogliptin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failure, severe and disabling arthralgia, acute pancreatitis, diarrhea, constipation, nausea and ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.11)]. Pioglitazone The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of pioglitazone. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. New onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure have been reported in patients treated with pioglitazone, both with and without previously known heart disease and both with and without concomitant insulin administration. In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below or elsewhere in the prescribing information: -Pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Heart Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Hepatic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The most common adverse reactions (4% or greater incidence) are nasopharyngitis, headache and upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-TAKEDA-7 (1-877-825-3327) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. A total of 14,778 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in 14 randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials of whom 9052 subjects were treated with NESINA, 3469 subjects were treated with placebo and 2257 were treated with an active comparator. The mean duration of diabetes was seven years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (49% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2), and the mean age was 58 years (26% of patients >=65 years of age). The mean exposure to NESINA was 49 weeks with 3348 subjects treated for more than one year. In a pooled analysis of these 14 controlled clinical trials, the overall incidence of adverse reactions was 73% in patients treated with NESINA 25 mg compared to 75% with placebo and 70% with active comparator. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions was 6.8% with NESINA 25 mg compared to 8.4% with placebo or 6.2% with active comparator. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with NESINA 25 mg and more frequently than in patients who received placebo are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% Patients Treated with NESINA 25 mg and More Frequently Than in Patients Given Placebo in Pooled Studies Number of Patients (%) NESINA 25 mg Placebo Active Comparator N=6447 N=3469 N=2257 Nasopharyngitis 309 (4.8) 152 (4.4) 113 (5.0) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 287 (4.5) 121 (3.5) 113 (5.0) Headache 278 (4.3) 101 (2.9) 121 (5.4) Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemic events were documented based upon a blood glucose value and/or clinical signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. In the monotherapy study, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 1.5% in patients treated with NESINA compared to 1.6% with placebo. The use of NESINA as add-on therapy to glyburide or insulin did not increase the incidence of hypoglycemia compared to placebo. In a monotherapy study comparing NESINA to a sulfonylurea in elderly patients, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 5.4% with NESINA compared to 26% with glipizide (Table 2). Table 2. Incidence and Rate of Hypoglycemia Adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were based on all reports of symptomatic and asymptomatic hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required; intent-to-treat population. in Placebo and Active-Controlled Studies when NESINA Was Used as Add-On Therapy to Glyburide, Insulin, Metformin, Pioglitazone or Compared to Glipizide or Metformin Add-On to Glyburide (26 Weeks) NESINA 25 mg Placebo N=198 N=99 Overall (%) 19 (9.6) 11 (11.1) Severe (%)Severe events of hypoglycemia were defined as those events requiring medical assistance or exhibiting depressed level or loss of consciousness or seizure. 0 1 (1) Add-On to Insulin (\\302\\261 Metformin) (26 Weeks) NESINA 25 mg Placebo N=129 N=129 Overall (%) 35 (27) 31 (24) Severe (%) 1 (0.8) 2 (1.6) Add-On to Metformin (26 Weeks) NESINA 25 mg Placebo N=207 N=104 Overall (%) 0 3 (2.9) Severe (%) 0 0 Add-On to Pioglitazone (\\302\\261 Metformin or Sulfonylurea) (26 Weeks) NESINA 25 mg Placebo N=199 N=97 Overall (%) 14 (7.0) 5 (5.2) Severe (%) 0 1 (1) Compared to Glipizide (52 Weeks) NESINA 25 mg Glipizide N=222 N=219 Overall (%) 12 (5.4) 57 (26) Severe (%) 0 3 (1.4) Compared to Metformin (26 Weeks) NESINA 25 mg Metformin 500 mg twice daily N=112 N=109 Overall (%) 2 (1.8) 2 (1.8) Severe (%) 0 0 Add-On to Metformin Compared to Glipizide (52 Weeks) NESINA 25 mg Glipizide N=877 N=869 Overall (%) 12 (1.4) 207 (23.8) Severe (%) 0 4 (0.5) In the EXAMINE trial, the incidence of investigator reported hypoglycemia was 6.7% in patients receiving NESINA and 6.5% in patients receiving placebo. Serious adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were reported in 0.8% of patients treated with NESINA and in 0.6% of patients treated with placebo. Renal Impairment In glycemic control trials in patients with type 2 diabetes, 3.4% of patients treated with NESINA and 1.3% of patients treated with placebo had renal function adverse reactions. The most commonly reported adverse reactions were renal impairment (0.5% for NESINA and 0.1% for active comparators or placebo), decreased creatinine clearance (1.6% for NESINA and 0.5% for active comparators or placebo) and increased blood creatinine (0.5% for NESINA and 0.3% for active comparators or placebo) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. In the EXAMINE trial of high CV risk type 2 diabetes patients, 23% of patients treated with NESINA and 21% of patients treated with placebo had an investigator reported renal impairment adverse reaction. The most commonly reported adverse reactions were renal impairment (7.7% for NESINA and 6.7% for placebo), decreased glomerular filtration rate (4.9% for NESINA and 4.3% for placebo) and decreased renal clearance (2.2% for NESINA and 1.8% for placebo). Laboratory measures of renal function were also assessed. Estimated glomerular filtration rate decreased by 25% or more in 21.1% of patients treated with NESINA and 18.7% of patients treated with placebo. Worsening of chronic kidney disease stage was seen in 16.8% of patients treated with NESINA and in 15.5% of patients treated with placebo. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of NESINA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failure, severe and disabling arthralgia, acute pancreatitis, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, and ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.5)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below or elsewhere in the prescribing information: Pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Heart Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hepatic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] The most common adverse reactions (4% or greater incidence) are upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, diarrhea, hypertension, headache, back pain and urinary tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-TAKEDA-7 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Alogliptin and Metformin Hydrochloride Over 2700 patients with type 2 diabetes have received alogliptin coadministered with metformin in four large, randomized, double-blind controlled clinical trials. The mean exposure to KAZANO was 58 weeks, with more than 1400 subjects treated for more than one year. These included two 26-week placebo-controlled studies, one 52-week active control study and an interim analysis of a 104-week active-controlled study. In the KAZANO arm, the mean duration of diabetes was approximately six years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (56% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2) and the mean age was 55 years (18% of patients >=65 years of age). In a pooled analysis of these four controlled clinical studies, the overall incidence of adverse reactions was 74% in patients treated with KAZANO compared to 75% treated with placebo. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions was 6.2% with KAZANO compared to 1.9% in placebo, 6.4% in metformin and 5.0% in alogliptin. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with KAZANO and more frequently than in patients who received alogliptin, metformin or placebo are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% of Patients Treated with KAZANO and More Frequently Than in Patients Receiving Either Alogliptin, Metformin or Placebo Number of Patients (%) KAZANOKAZANO - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 and 12.5 mg combined with various dose of metformin AlogliptinAlogliptin - includes data pooled for patients receiving alogliptin 25 and 12.5 mg MetforminMetformin - includes data pooled for patients receiving various doses of metformin Placebo N=2794 N=222 N=1592 N=106 Upper respiratory tract infection 224 (8.0) 6 (2.7) 105 (6.6) 3 (2.8) Nasopharyngitis 191 (6.8) 7 (3.2) 93 (5.8) 2 (1.9) Diarrhea 155 (5.5) 4 (1.8) 105 (6.6) 3 (2.8) Hypertension 154 (5.5) 5 (2.3) 96 (6.0) 6 (5.7) Headache 149 (5.3) 11 (5.0) 74 (4.6) 3 (2.8) Back pain 119 (4.3) 1 (0.5) 72 (4.5) 1 (0.9) Urinary tract infection 116 (4.2) 4 (1.8) 59 (3.7) 2 (1.9) Hypoglycemia In a 26-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of alogliptin in combination with metformin, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemia was 1.9% in the alogliptin 12.5 mg with metformin HCl 500 mg, 5.3% in the alogliptin 12.5 mg with metformin HCl 1000 mg, 1.8% in the metformin HCl 500 mg and 6.3% in the metformin HCl 1000 mg treatment groups. In a 26-week placebo-controlled study of alogliptin 25 mg administered once daily as add-on to metformin regimen, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemic events was 0% in the alogliptin with metformin and 2.9% in the placebo treatment groups. In a 52-week, active-controlled, double-blind study of alogliptin once daily as add-on therapy to the combination of pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin compared to the titration of pioglitazone 30 mg to 45 mg and metformin, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemia was 4.5% in the alogliptin 25 mg with pioglitazone 30 mg and metformin group versus 1.5% in the pioglitazone 45 mg with metformin group. In an interim analysis conducted in a 104-week, double-blind, active-controlled study of alogliptin 25 mg in combination with metformin, the number of patients reporting hypoglycemia was 1.4% in the alogliptin 25 mg with metformin group versus 23.8% in the glipizide with metformin group. Alogliptin A total of 14,778 patients with type 2 diabetes participated in 14 randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials of whom 9052 subjects were treated with alogliptin, 3469 subjects were treated with placebo and 2257 were treated with an active comparator. The mean duration of diabetes was seven years, the mean body mass index (BMI) was 31 kg/m2 (49% of patients had a BMI >=30 kg/m2), and the mean age was 58 years (26% of patients >=65 years of age). The mean exposure to alogliptin was 49 weeks with 3348 subjects treated for more than one year. In a pooled analysis of these 14 controlled clinical trials, the overall incidence of adverse reactions was 73% in patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 75% with placebo and 70% with active comparator. Overall discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions was 6.8% with alogliptin 25 mg compared to 8.4% with placebo or 6.2% with active comparator. Adverse reactions reported in >=4% of patients treated with alogliptin 25 mg and more frequently than in patients who received placebo are summarized in Table 2. Table 2. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=4% Patients Treated with Alogliptin 25 mg and More Frequently Than in Patients Given Placebo in Pooled Studies Number of Patients (%) Alogliptin 25 mg Placebo Active Comparator N=6447 N=3469 N=2257 Nasopharyngitis 309 (4.8) 152 (4.4) 113 (5.0) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 287 (4.5) 121 (3.5) 113 (5.0) Headache 278 (4.3) 101 (2.9) 121 (5.4) Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemic events were documented based upon a blood glucose value and/or clinical signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. In the monotherapy study, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 1.5% in patients treated with alogliptin compared to 1.6% with placebo. The use of alogliptin as add-on therapy to glyburide or insulin did not increase the incidence of hypoglycemia compared to placebo. In a monotherapy study comparing alogliptin to a sulfonylurea in elderly patients, the incidence of hypoglycemia was 5.4% with alogliptin compared to 26% with glipizide. In the EXAMINE trial, the incidence of investigator reported hypoglycemia was 6.7% in patients receiving alogliptin and 6.5% in patients receiving placebo. Serious adverse reactions of hypoglycemia were reported in 0.8% of patients treated with alogliptin and in 0.6% of patients treated with placebo. Metformin Hydrochloride Table 3. Most Common Adverse Reactions (>=5%) in a Placebo-Controlled Clinical Study of Metformin MonotherapyReactions that were more common in metformin than placebo-treated patients Adverse Reaction Metformin Monotherapy (n=141) Placebo (n=145) % of Patients Diarrhea 53.2 11.7 Nausea/vomiting 25.5 8.3 Flatulence 12.1 5.5 Asthenia 9.2 5.5 Indigestion 7.1 4.1 Abdominal discomfort 6.4 4.8 Headache 5.7 4.8 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Alogliptin and Metformin Hydrochloride No clinically meaningful differences were observed among treatment groups regarding hematology, serum chemistry or urinalysis results. Metformin Hydrochloride Metformin may lower serum vitamin B12 concentrations. Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on KAZANO, and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience Alogliptin The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of alogliptin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria and severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failure, severe and disabling arthralgia, acute pancreatitis, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, and ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.4, 5.5, 5.8) ."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Alogliptin Alogliptin is primarily renally excreted. Cytochrome (CYP) P450-related metabolism is negligible. No significant drug-drug interactions were observed with the CYP-substrates or inhibitors tested or with renally excreted drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. -Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. Limit the pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily. (2.3, 7.1) -CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.2) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors Pioglitazone An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the concentration-time curve [AUC]) and half-life of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 CYP2C8 Inducers Pioglitazone An inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may significantly decrease the exposure (AUC) of pioglitazone. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with OSENI, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Alogliptin tablets are primarily renally excreted. Cytochrome (CYP) P450-related metabolism is negligible. No significant drug-drug interactions were observed with the CYP-substrates or inhibitors tested or with renally excreted drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Carbionic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. (7.1) Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., cationic drugs such as cimetidine), may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider more frequent monitoring. (7.2) Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. (7.3) Alogliptin Alogliptin is primarily renally excreted. Cytochrome (CYP) P450-related metabolism is negligible. No significant drug-drug interactions were observed with the CYP-substrates or inhibitors tested or with renally excreted drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Metformin Hydrochloride 7.1 Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce nonanion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with KAZANO may increase the risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. 7.2 Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g., cationic drugs such as cimetidine), have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems, and may increase the accumulation of metformin and risk of lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. 7.3 Alcohol Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving KAZANO. 7.4 Insulin Secretagogues and Insulin When used in an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or with insulin, a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. 7.5 The Use of Metformin with Other Drugs Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving KAZANO, the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving KAZANO, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cationic drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion: Use with caution. (7.2) Alogliptin Alogliptin is primarily renally excreted and CYP-related metabolism is negligible. No drug-drug interactions were observed with the CYP-substrates or inhibitors tested or with renally excreted drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Metformin Hydrochloride 7.1 Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently decrease serum bicarbonate and induce nonanion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs may induce metabolic acidosis. Use these drugs with caution in patients treated with metformin, as the risk of lactic acidosis may increase. 7.2 Cationic Drugs Cationic drugs (e.g., amiloride, digoxin, morphine, procainamide, quinidine, quinine, ranitidine, triamterene, trimethoprim or vancomycin) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical (except for cimetidine), careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets and/or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system. 7.3 The Use of Metformin with Other Drugs Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets, the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving alogliptin and metformin HCl tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS NESINA is primarily renally excreted. Cytochrome (CYP) P450-related metabolism is negligible. No significant drug-drug interactions were observed with the CYP-substrates or inhibitors tested or with renally excreted drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. Limit the pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily. (2.3, 7.1) -CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.2) Alogliptin Alogliptin is primarily renally excreted. Cytochrome (CYP) P450-related metabolism is negligible. No significant drug-drug interactions were observed with the CYP-substrates or inhibitors tested or with renally excreted drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors Pioglitazone An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the concentration-time curve [AUC]) and half-life of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 CYP2C8 Inducers Pioglitazone An inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may significantly decrease the exposure (AUC) of pioglitazone. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with alogliptin and pioglitazone tablets, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
