"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious Complications of Constipation: May occur in some patients without warning. Include obstruction, ileus, impaction, toxic megacolon, and secondary bowel ischemia and in rare cases perforation and death have been reported. Risk is increased in patients who are elderly, debilitated, or taking medications that decrease bowel motility. (5.1) Discontinue alosetron hydrochloride immediately if constipation occurs. (5.1) Ischemic colitis: May occur in some patients without warning. Promptly evaluate patients with signs of ischemic colitis (e.g., rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, new or worsening abdominal pain). (5.2) Discontinue alosetron hydrochloride immediately if signs of ischemic colitis occur, such as rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, or new or worsening abdominal pain. (5.2) To prescribe alosetron hydrochloride, prescriber must be enrolled in the Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX which includes its authorized generic alosetron hydrochloride and adhere to all components of the Program. (5.3) 5.1 Serious Complications of Constipation Some patients have experienced serious complications of constipation without warning. Serious complications of constipation, including obstruction, ileus, impaction, toxic megacolon, and secondary bowel ischemia, have been reported with use of alosetron hydrochloride during clinical trials. Complications of constipation have been reported with use of 1 mg twice daily and with lower doses. A dose response relationship has not been established for serious complications of constipation. The incidence of serious complications of constipation was approximately 0.1% (1 per 1,000 patients) in women receiving either alosetron hydrochloride or placebo. In addition, rare cases of perforation and death have been reported from postmarketing clinical practice. In some cases, complications of constipation required intestinal surgery, including colectomy. Patients who are elderly, debilitated, or taking additional medications that decrease gastrointestinal motility may be at greater risk for complications of constipation. Alosetron hydrochloride should be discontinued immediately in patients who develop constipation [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Ischemic Colitis Some patients have experienced ischemic colitis without warning. Ischemic colitis has been reported in patients receiving alosetron hydrochloride in clinical trials as well as during marketed use of the drug. In IBS clinical trials, the cumulative incidence of ischemic colitis in women receiving alosetron hydrochloride was 0.2% (2 per 1,000 patients, 95% confidence interval 1 to 3) through 3 months and was 0.3% (3 per 1,000 patients, 95% confidence interval 1 to 4) through 6 months. Ischemic colitis has been reported with use of 1 mg twice daily and with lower doses. A dose-response relationship has not been established. Ischemic colitis was reported in one patient receiving placebo. The patient experience in controlled clinical trials is insufficient to estimate the incidence of ischemic colitis in patients taking alosetron hydrochloride for longer than 6 months. Alosetron hydrochloride should be discontinued immediately in patients with signs of ischemic colitis such as rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, or new or worsening abdominal pain. Because ischemic colitis can be life-threatening, patients with signs or symptoms of ischemic colitis should be evaluated promptly and have appropriate diagnostic testing performed. Treatment with alosetron hydrochloride should not be resumed in patients who develop ischemic colitis. 5.3 Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX which includes its authorized generic alosetron hydrochloride To prescribe alosetron hydrochloride, the prescriber must be enrolled in the Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX. To enroll, prescribers must understand the benefits and risks of treatment with alosetron hydrochloride for severe diarrhea-predominant IBS, including the information in the Prescribing Information, Medication Guide, and Patient Acknowledgement Form for alosetron hydrochloride. To enroll in the Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX, call 1-888-423-5227 or visit www.lotronexppl.com to complete the Prescriber Enrollment Form."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Serious Complications of Constipation: May occur in some patients without warning. Include obstruction, ileus, impaction, toxic megacolon, and secondary bowel ischemia and in rare cases perforation and death have been reported. Risk is increased in patients who are elderly, debilitated, or taking medications that decrease bowel motility. (5.1) -Discontinue Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets immediately if constipation occurs. (5.1) -Ischemic colitis: May occur in some patients without warning. Promptly evaluate patients with signs of ischemic colitis (e.g., rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, new or worsening abdominal pain). (5.2) -Discontinue Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets immediately if signs of ischemic colitis occur, such as rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, or new or worsening abdominal pain. (5.2) -To prescribe Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets, prescribers must be enrolled in the Alosetron REMS Program and adhere to all components of the Program. (5.3) 5.1 Serious Complications of Constipation Some patients have experienced serious complications of constipation without warning. Serious complications of constipation, including obstruction, ileus, impaction, toxic megacolon, and secondary bowel ischemia, have been reported with use of Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets during clinical trials. Complications of constipation have been reported with use of 1 mg twice daily and with lower doses. A dose response relationship has not been established for serious complications of constipation. The incidence of serious complications of constipation was approximately 0.1% (1 per 1,000 patients) in women receiving either Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets or placebo. In addition, rare cases of perforation and death have been reported from postmarketing clinical practice. In some cases, complications of constipation required intestinal surgery, including colectomy. Patients who are elderly, debilitated, or taking additional medications that decrease gastrointestinal motility may be at greater risk for complications of constipation. Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets should be discontinued immediately in patients who develop constipation [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Ischemic Colitis Some patients have experienced ischemic colitis without warning. Ischemic colitis has been reported in patients receiving Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets in clinical trials as well as during marketed use of the drug. In IBS clinical trials, the cumulative incidence of ischemic colitis in women receiving Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets was 0.2% (2 per 1,000 patients, 95% confidence interval 1 to 3) through 3 months and was 0.3% (3 per 1,000 patients, 95% confidence interval 1 to 4) through 6 months. Ischemic colitis has been reported with use of 1 mg twice daily and with lower doses. A dose-response relationship has not been established. Ischemic colitis was reported in one patient receiving placebo. The patient experience in controlled clinical trials is insufficient to estimate the incidence of ischemic colitis in patients taking Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets for longer than 6 months. Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets should be discontinued immediately in patients with signs of ischemic colitis such as rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, or new or worsening abdominal pain. Because ischemic colitis can be life-threatening, patients with signs or symptoms of ischemic colitis should be evaluated promptly and have appropriate diagnostic testing performed. Treatment with Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets should not be resumed in patients who develop ischemic colitis. 5.3 Alosetron REMS Program To prescribe Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets, the prescriber must be enrolled in the Alosetron REMS Program. To enroll, prescribers must understand the benefits and risks of treatment with Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets for severe diarrhea-predominant IBS, including the information in the Prescribing Information, Medication Guide, and Patient Acknowledgement Form for Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets. To enroll in the Alosetron REMS Program, call 1-844-267-8675 or visit www.AlosetronREMS.com to complete the Prescriber Enrollment Form."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious Complications of Constipation: May occur in some patients without warning. Include obstruction, ileus, impaction, toxic megacolon, and secondary bowel ischemia and in rare cases perforation and death have been reported. Risk is increased in patients who are elderly, debilitated, or taking medications that decrease bowel motility. (5.1) Discontinue LOTRONEX immediately if constipation occurs. (5.1) Ischemic colitis: May occur in some patients without warning. Promptly evaluate patients with signs of ischemic colitis (e.g., rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, new or worsening abdominal pain). (5.2) Discontinue LOTRONEX immediately if signs of ischemic colitis occur, such as rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, or new or worsening abdominal pain. (5.2) To prescribe LOTRONEX, prescriber must be enrolled in the Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX and adhere to all components of the Program. (5.3) 5.1 Serious Complications of Constipation Some patients have experienced serious complications of constipation without warning. Serious complications of constipation, including obstruction, ileus, impaction, toxic megacolon, and secondary bowel ischemia, have been reported with use of LOTRONEX during clinical trials. Complications of constipation have been reported with use of 1 mg twice daily and with lower doses. A dose response relationship has not been established for serious complications of constipation. The incidence of serious complications of constipation was approximately 0.1% (1 per 1,000 patients) in women receiving either LOTRONEX or placebo. In addition, rare cases of perforation and death have been reported from postmarketing clinical practice. In some cases, complications of constipation required intestinal surgery, including colectomy. Patients who are elderly, debilitated, or taking additional medications that decrease gastrointestinal motility may be at greater risk for complications of constipation. LOTRONEX should be discontinued immediately in patients who develop constipation [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Ischemic Colitis Some patients have experienced ischemic colitis without warning. Ischemic colitis has been reported in patients receiving LOTRONEX in clinical trials as well as during marketed use of the drug. In IBS clinical trials, the cumulative incidence of ischemic colitis in women receiving LOTRONEX was 0.2% (2 per 1,000 patients, 95% confidence interval 1 to 3) through 3 months and was 0.3% (3 per 1,000 patients, 95% confidence interval 1 to 4) through 6 months. Ischemic colitis has been reported with use of 1 mg twice daily and with lower doses. A dose-response relationship has not been established. Ischemic colitis was reported in one patient receiving placebo. The patient experience in controlled clinical trials is insufficient to estimate the incidence of ischemic colitis in patients taking LOTRONEX for longer than 6 months. LOTRONEX should be discontinued immediately in patients with signs of ischemic colitis such as rectal bleeding, bloody diarrhea, or new or worsening abdominal pain. Because ischemic colitis can be life-threatening, patients with signs or symptoms of ischemic colitis should be evaluated promptly and have appropriate diagnostic testing performed. Treatment with LOTRONEX should not be resumed in patients who develop ischemic colitis. 5.3 Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX To prescribe LOTRONEX, the prescriber must be enrolled in the Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX. To enroll, prescribers must understand the benefits and risks of treatment with LOTRONEX for severe diarrhea-predominant IBS, including the information in the Prescribing Information, Medication Guide, and Patient Acknowledgement Form for LOTRONEX. To enroll in the Prescribing Program for LOTRONEX, call 1-888-423-5227 or visit www.lotronexppl.com to complete the Prescriber Enrollment Form."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the label: Complications of constipation [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Ischemic colitis [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >2% and >placebo) in clinical studies were constipation, abdominal discomfort and pain, nausea, and gastrointestinal discomfort and pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Prometheus at 1-888- 423-5227 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Patients With Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Table 1 summarizes adverse reactions from 22 -repeat-dose studies in patients with IBS who were treated with 1 mg of alosetron hydrochloride twice daily for 8 to 24 weeks. The adverse reactions in Table 1 were reported in 1% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride and occurred more frequently on alosetron hydrochloride than on placebo. A statistically significant difference was observed for constipation in patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride compared to placebo (p<0.0001). Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=1% of Patients With Irritable Bowel Syndrome and More Frequently on Alosetron Hydrochloride 1 mg Twice Daily Than Placebo Alosetron Hydrochloride Body System Placebo 1 mg twice daily Adverse Reaction (n = 2,363) (n = 8,328) Gastrointestinal Constipation 6% 29% Abdominal discomfort and pain 4% 7% Nausea 5% 6% Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 3% 5% Abdominal distention 1% 2% Regurgitation and reflux 2% 2% Hemorrhoids 1% 2% Gastrointestinal: Constipation is a frequent and dose-related side effect of treatment with alosetron hydrochloride [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. In clinical studies constipation was reported in approximately 29% of patients with IBS treated with alosetron hydrochloride 1 mg twice daily (n = 9,316). This effect was statistically significant compared to placebo (p<0.0001). Eleven percent (11%) of patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride 1 mg twice daily withdrew from the studies due to constipation. Although the number of patients with IBS treated with alosetron hydrochloride 0.5 mg twice daily is relatively small (n = 243), only 11% of those patients reported constipation and 4% withdrew from clinical studies due to constipation. Among the patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride 1 mg twice daily who reported constipation, 75% reported a single episode and most reports of constipation (70%) occurred during the first month of treatment, with the median time to first report of constipation onset of 8 days. Occurrences of constipation in clinical trials were generally mild to moderate in intensity, transient in nature, and resolved either spontaneously with continued treatment or with an interruption of treatment. However, serious complications of constipation have been reported in clinical studies and in postmarketing experience [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. In Studies 1 and 2, 9% of patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride reported constipation and 4 consecutive days with no bowel movement [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Following interruption of treatment, 78% of the affected patients resumed bowel movements within a 2-day period and were able to re-initiate treatment with alosetron hydrochloride. Hepatic: A similar incidence in elevation of ALT (>2-fold) was seen in patients receiving alosetron hydrochloride or placebo (1.0% vs. 1.2%). A single case of hepatitis (elevated ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) without jaundice in a patient receiving alosetron hydrochloride was reported in a 12-week study. A causal association with alosetron hydrochloride has not been established. Long-Term Safety: Patient experience in controlled clinical trials is insufficient to estimate the incidence of ischemic colitis in patients taking alosetron hydrochloride for longer than 6 months. Women With Severe Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Table 2 summarizes the gastrointestinal adverse reactions from 1 repeat-dose study in female patients with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS who were treated for 12 weeks. The adverse reactions in Table 2 were reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride and occurred more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride than with placebo. Other events reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride and occurring more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride than with placebo included upper respiratory tract infection, viral gastroenteritis, muscle spasms, headaches, and fatigue. Table 2. Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Reported in >=3% of Women With Severe Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome and More Frequently on Alosetron Hydrochloride Than Placebo Alosetron Hydrochloride Alosetron Hydrochloride Alosetron Hydrochloride Adverse Reaction Placebo 0.5 mg once daily 1 mg once daily 1 mg twice daily (n = 176) (n = 175) (n = 172) (n = 176) Constipation 5% 9% 16% 19% Abdominal pain 3% 5% 6% 7% Diarrhea 2% 3% 2% 2% Hemorrhoidal hemorrhage 2% 3% 2% 2% Flatulence 2% 2% 1% 3% Hemorrhoids 2% 1% 1% 3% Abdominal pain upper 1% 3% 1% 1% Adverse reactions reported in another study of 701 women with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS were similar to those shown in Table 2. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride and occurring more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride than with placebo included constipation (14% and 10% of patients taking alosetron hydrochloride 1 mg twice daily or 0.5 mg as needed, respectively, compared with 2% taking placebo), abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and flatulence. Other events reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride and occurring more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride than with placebo included nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, viral gastroenteritis, and cough. Constipation: Constipation was the most frequent adverse reaction among women with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS represented in Table 2. There was a dose response in the groups treated with alosetron hydrochloride in the number of patients withdrawn due to constipation (2% on placebo, 5% on 0.5 mg once daily, 8% on 1 mg once daily, and 11% on 1 mg twice daily). Among these patients with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS treated with alosetron hydrochloride who reported constipation most (75%) reported one episode which occurred within the first 15 days of treatment and persisted for 4 to 5 days. Other Events Observed During Clinical Evaluation of Alosetron hydrochloride: During its assessment in clinical trials, multiple and single doses of alosetron hydrochloride were administered, resulting in 11,874 subject exposures in 86 completed clinical studies. The conditions, dosages, and duration of exposure to alosetron hydrochloride varied between trials, and the studies included healthy male and female volunteers as well as male and female patients with IBS and other indications. In the listing that follows, reported adverse reactions were classified using a standardized coding dictionary. Only those events that an investigator believed were possibly related to alosetron hydrochloride, occurred in at least 2 patients, and occurred at a greater frequency during treatment with alosetron hydrochloride than during placebo administration are presented. Serious adverse reactions occurring in at least 1 patient for whom an investigator believed there was reasonable possibility that the event was related to treatment with alosetron hydrochloride and occurring at a greater frequency in patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride than placebo-treated patients are also presented. In the following listing, events are categorized by body system. Within each body system, events are presented in descending order of frequency. The following definitions are used: infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring on one or more occasion in 1/100 to 1/1,000 patients; rare adverse reactions are those occurring on one or more occasion in fewer than 1/1,000 patients. Although the events reported occurred during treatment with alosetron hydrochloride, they were not necessarily caused by it. Blood and Lymphatic: Rare: Quantitative red cell or hemoglobin defects, and hemorrhage. Cardiovascular: Infrequent: Tachyarrhythmias. Rare: Arrhythmias, increased blood pressure, and extrasystoles. Drug Interaction, Overdose, and Trauma: Rare: Contusions and hematomas. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Rare: Ear, nose, and throat infections; viral ear, nose, and throat infections; and laryngitis. Endocrine and Metabolic: Rare: Disorders of calcium and phosphate metabolism, hyperglycemia, hypothalamus/pituitary hypofunction, hypoglycemia, and fluid disturbances. Eye: Rare: Light sensitivity of eyes. Gastrointestinal: Infrequent: Hyposalivation, dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal spasms, ischemic colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], and gastrointestinal lesions. Rare: Abnormal tenderness, colitis, gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, proctitis, diverticulitis, positive fecal occult blood, hyperacidity, decreased gastrointestinal motility and ileus, gastrointestinal obstructions, oral symptoms, gastrointestinal intussusception, gastritis, gastroduodenitis, gastroenteritis, and ulcerative colitis. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas: Rare: Abnormal bilirubin levels and cholecystitis. Lower Respiratory: Infrequent: Breathing disorders. Musculoskeletal: Rare: Muscle pain; muscle stiffness, tightness and rigidity; and bone and skeletal pain. Neurological: Infrequent: Hypnagogic effects. Rare: Memory effects, tremors, dreams, cognitive function disorders, disturbances of sense of taste, disorders of equilibrium, confusion, sedation, and hypoesthesia. Non-Site Specific: Infrequent: Malaise and fatigue, cramps, pain, temperature regulation disturbances. Rare: Burning sensations, hot and cold sensations, cold sensations, and fungal infections. Psychiatry: Infrequent: Anxiety. Rare: Depressive moods. Reproduction: Rare: Sexual function disorders, female reproductive tract bleeding and hemorrhage, reproductive infections, and fungal reproductive infections. Skin: Infrequent: Sweating and urticaria. Rare: Hair loss and alopecia; acne and folliculitis; disorders of sweat and sebum; allergic skin reaction; eczema; skin infections; dermatitis and dermatosis; and nail disorders. Urology: Infrequent: Urinary frequency. Rare: Bladder inflammation; polyuria and diuresis; and urinary tract hemorrhage. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to events reported in clinical trials, the following events have been identified during use of alosetron hydrochloride in clinical practice. Because they were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to alosetron hydrochloride. Gastrointestinal: Impaction, perforation, ulceration, small bowel mesenteric ischemia. Neurological: Headache. Skin: Rash."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the label: Complications of constipation [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Ischemic colitis [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >2% and >placebo) in clinical studies were constipation, abdominal discomfort and pain, nausea, and gastrointestinal discomfort and pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Prometheus at 1-888-423-5227 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Patients With Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Table 1 summarizes adverse reactions from 22 repeat-dose studies in patients with IBS who were treated with 1 mg of LOTRONEX twice daily for 8 to 24 weeks. The adverse reactions in Table 1 were reported in 1% or more of patients who received LOTRONEX and occurred more frequently on LOTRONEX than on placebo. A statistically significant difference was observed for constipation in patients treated with LOTRONEX compared to placebo (p<0.0001). Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported in >=1% of Patients With Irritable Bowel Syndrome and More Frequently on LOTRONEX 1 mg Twice Daily Than Placebo LOTRONEX Body System Placebo 1 mg twice daily Adverse Reaction (n = 2,363) (n = 8,328) Gastrointestinal Constipation 6% 29% Abdominal discomfort and pain 4% 7% Nausea 5% 6% Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 3% 5% Abdominal distention 1% 2% Regurgitation and reflux 2% 2% Hemorrhoids 1% 2% Gastrointestinal: Constipation is a frequent and dose-related side effect of treatment with LOTRONEX [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. In clinical studies constipation was reported in approximately 29% of patients with IBS treated with LOTRONEX 1 mg twice daily (n = 9,316). This effect was statistically significant compared to placebo (p<0.0001). Eleven percent (11%) of patients treated with LOTRONEX 1 mg twice daily withdrew from the studies due to constipation. Although the number of patients with IBS treated with LOTRONEX 0.5 mg twice daily is relatively small (n = 243), only 11% of those patients reported constipation and 4% withdrew from clinical studies due to constipation. Among the patients treated with LOTRONEX 1 mg twice daily who reported constipation, 75% reported a single episode and most reports of constipation (70%) occurred during the first month of treatment, with the median time to first report of constipation onset of 8 days. Occurrences of constipation in clinical trials were generally mild to moderate in intensity, transient in nature, and resolved either spontaneously with continued treatment or with an interruption of treatment. However, serious complications of constipation have been reported in clinical studies and in postmarketing experience [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. In Studies 1 and 2, 9% of patients treated with LOTRONEX reported constipation and 4 consecutive days with no bowel movement [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Following interruption of treatment, 78% of the affected patients resumed bowel movements within a 2-day period and were able to re-initiate treatment with LOTRONEX. Hepatic: A similar incidence in elevation of ALT (>2-fold) was seen in patients receiving LOTRONEX or placebo (1.0% vs. 1.2%). A single case of hepatitis (elevated ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) without jaundice in a patient receiving LOTRONEX was reported in a 12-week study. A causal association with LOTRONEX has not been established. Long-Term Safety: Patient experience in controlled clinical trials is insufficient to estimate the incidence of ischemic colitis in patients taking LOTRONEX for longer than 6 months. Women With Severe Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Table 2 summarizes the gastrointestinal adverse reactions from 1 repeat-dose study in female patients with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS who were treated for 12 weeks. The adverse reactions in Table 2 were reported in 3% or more of patients who received LOTRONEX and occurred more frequently with LOTRONEX than with placebo. Other events reported in 3% or more of patients who received LOTRONEX and occurring more frequently with LOTRONEX than with placebo included upper respiratory tract infection, viral gastroenteritis, muscle spasms, headaches, and fatigue. Table 2. Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Reported in >=3% of Women With Severe Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome and More Frequently on LOTRONEX Than Placebo. LOTRONEX LOTRONEX LOTRONEX Adverse Reaction Placebo 0.5 mg once daily 1 mg once daily 1 mg twice daily (n = 176) (n = 175) (n = 172) (n = 176) Constipation 5% 9% 16% 19% Abdominal pain 3% 5% 6% 7% Diarrhea 2% 3% 2% 2% Hemorrhoidal hemorrhage 2% 3% 2% 2% Flatulence 2% 2% 1% 3% Hemorrhoids 2% 1% 1% 3% Abdominal pain upper 1% 3% 1% 1% Adverse reactions reported in another study of 701 women with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS were similar to those shown in Table 2. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in 3% or more of patients who received LOTRONEX and occurring more frequently with LOTRONEX than with placebo included constipation (14% and 10% of patients taking LOTRONEX 1 mg twice daily or 0.5 mg as needed, respectively, compared with 2% taking placebo), abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and flatulence. Other events reported in 3% or more of patients who received LOTRONEX and occurring more frequently with LOTRONEX than with placebo included nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, viral gastroenteritis, and cough. Constipation: Constipation was the most frequent adverse reaction among women with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS represented in Table 2. There was a dose response in the groups treated with LOTRONEX in the number of patients withdrawn due to constipation (2% on placebo, 5% on 0.5 mg once daily, 8% on 1 mg once daily, and 11% on 1 mg twice daily). Among these patients with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS treated with LOTRONEX who reported constipation most (75%) reported one episode which occurred within the first 15 days of treatment and persisted for 4 to 5 days. Other Events Observed During Clinical Evaluation of LOTRONEX: During its assessment in clinical trials, multiple and single doses of LOTRONEX were administered, resulting in 11,874 subject exposures in 86 completed clinical studies. The conditions, dosages, and duration of exposure to LOTRONEX varied between trials, and the studies included healthy male and female volunteers as well as male and female patients with IBS and other indications. In the listing that follows, reported adverse reactions were classified using a standardized coding dictionary. Only those events that an investigator believed were possibly related to LOTRONEX, occurred in at least 2 patients, and occurred at a greater frequency during treatment with LOTRONEX than during placebo administration are presented. Serious adverse reactions occurring in at least 1 patient for whom an investigator believed there was reasonable possibility that the event was related to treatment with LOTRONEX and occurring at a greater frequency in patients treated with LOTRONEX than placebo-treated patients are also presented. In the following listing, events are categorized by body system. Within each body system, events are presented in descending order of frequency. The following definitions are used: infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring on one or more occasion in 1/100 to 1/1,000 patients; rare adverse reactions are those occurring on one or more occasion in fewer than 1/1,000 patients. Although the events reported occurred during treatment with LOTRONEX, they were not necessarily caused by it. Blood and Lymphatic: Rare: Quantitative red cell or hemoglobin defects, and hemorrhage. Cardiovascular: Infrequent: Tachyarrhythmias. Rare: Arrhythmias, increased blood pressure, and extrasystoles. Drug Interaction, Overdose, and Trauma: Rare: Contusions and hematomas. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Rare: Ear, nose, and throat infections; viral ear, nose, and throat infections; and laryngitis. Endocrine and Metabolic: Rare: Disorders of calcium and phosphate metabolism, hyperglycemia, hypothalamus/pituitary hypofunction, hypoglycemia, and fluid disturbances. Eye: Rare: Light sensitivity of eyes. Gastrointestinal: Infrequent: Hyposalivation, dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal spasms, ischemic colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], and gastrointestinal lesions. Rare: Abnormal tenderness, colitis, gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, proctitis, diverticulitis, positive fecal occult blood, hyperacidity, decreased gastrointestinal motility and ileus, gastrointestinal obstructions, oral symptoms, gastrointestinal intussusception, gastritis, gastroduodenitis, gastroenteritis, and ulcerative colitis. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas: Rare: Abnormal bilirubin levels and cholecystitis. Lower Respiratory: Infrequent: Breathing disorders. Musculoskeletal: Rare: Muscle pain; muscle stiffness, tightness and rigidity; and bone and skeletal pain. Neurological: Infrequent: Hypnagogic effects. Rare: Memory effects, tremors, dreams, cognitive function disorders, disturbances of sense of taste, disorders of equilibrium, confusion, sedation, and hypoesthesia. Non-Site Specific: Infrequent: Malaise and fatigue, cramps, pain, temperature regulation disturbances. Rare: Burning sensations, hot and cold sensations, cold sensations, and fungal infections. Psychiatry: Infrequent: Anxiety. Rare: Depressive moods. Reproduction: Rare: Sexual function disorders, female reproductive tract bleeding and hemorrhage, reproductive infections, and fungal reproductive infections. Skin: Infrequent: Sweating and urticaria. Rare: Hair loss and alopecia; acne and folliculitis; disorders of sweat and sebum; allergic skin reaction; eczema; skin infections; dermatitis and dermatosis; and nail disorders. Urology: Infrequent: Urinary frequency. Rare: Bladder inflammation; polyuria and diuresis; and urinary tract hemorrhage. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to events reported in clinical trials, the following events have been identified during use of LOTRONEX in clinical practice. Because they were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to LOTRONEX. Gastrointestinal: Impaction, perforation, ulceration, small bowel mesenteric ischemia. Neurological: Headache. Skin: Rash."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the label: -Complications of constipation [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Ischemic colitis [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >2% and >placebo) in clinical studies were constipation, abdominal discomfort and pain, nausea, and gastrointestinal discomfort and pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Roxane Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-962-8364 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Patients With Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Table 1 summarizes adverse reactions from 22 repeat-dose studies in patients with IBS who were treated with 1 mg of alosetron hydrochloride tablets twice daily for 8 to 24 weeks. The adverse reactions in Table 1 were reported in 1% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride tablets and occurred more frequently on alosetron hydrochloride tablets than on placebo. A statistically significant difference was observed for constipation in patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets compared to placebo (p<0.0001). Table 1: Adverse Reactions Reported in >=1% of Patients With Irritable Bowel Syndrome and More Frequently on Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets 1 mg Twice Daily Than Placebo Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets Body System Placebo 1 mg twice daily Adverse Reaction (n = 2,363) (n = 8,328) Gastrointestinal Constipation 6% 29% Abdominal discomfort and pain 4% 7% Nausea 5% 6% Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 3% 5% Abdominal distention 1% 2% Regurgitation and reflux 2% 2% Hemorrhoids 1% 2% Gastrointestinal: Constipation is a frequent and dose-related side effect of treatment with alosetron hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . In clinical studies constipation was reported in approximately 29% of patients with IBS treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg twice daily (n = 9,316). This effect was statistically significant compared to placebo (p<0.0001). Eleven percent (11%) of patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg twice daily withdrew from the studies due to constipation. Although the number of patients with IBS treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets 0.5 mg twice daily is relatively small (n = 243), only 11% of those patients reported constipation and 4% withdrew from clinical studies due to constipation. Among the patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg twice daily who reported constipation, 75% reported a single episode and most reports of constipation (70%) occurred during the first month of treatment, with the median time to first report of constipation onset of 8 days. Occurrences of constipation in clinical trials were generally mild to moderate in intensity, transient in nature, and resolved either spontaneously with continued treatment or with an interruption of treatment. However, serious complications of constipation have been reported in clinical studies and in postmarketing experience [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . In Studies 1 and 2, 9% of patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets reported constipation and 4 consecutive days with no bowel movement [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Following interruption of treatment, 78% of the affected patients resumed bowel movements within a 2-day period and were able to re-initiate treatment with alosetron hydrochloride tablets. Hepatic: A similar incidence in elevation of ALT (>2-fold) was seen in patients receiving alosetron hydrochloride tablets or placebo (1% vs. 1.2%). A single case of hepatitis (elevated ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) without jaundice in a patient receiving alosetron hydrochloride tablets was reported in a 12-week study. A causal association with alosetron hydrochloride tablets has not been established. Long-Term Safety: Patient experience in controlled clinical trials is insufficient to estimate the incidence of ischemic colitis in patients taking alosetron hydrochloride tablets for longer than 6 months. Women With Severe Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Table 2 summarizes the gastrointestinal adverse reactions from 1 repeat-dose study in female patients with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS who were treated for 12 weeks. The adverse reactions in Table 2 were reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride tablets and occurred more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride tablets than with placebo. Other events reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride tablets and occurring more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride tablets than with placebo included upper respiratory tract infection, viral gastroenteritis, muscle spasms, headaches, and fatigue. Table 2: Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Reported in >=3% of Women With Severe Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome and More Frequently on Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets Than Placebo. Adverse Reaction Placebo Alosetron HCl Alosetron HCl Alosetron HCl 0.5 mg once daily 1 mg once daily 1 mg twice daily (n = 176) (n = 175) (n = 172) (n = 176) Constipation 5% 9% 16% 19% Abdominal pain 3% 5% 6% 7% Diarrhea 2% 3% 2% 2% Hemorrhoidal hemorrhage 2% 3% 2% 2% Flatulence 2% 2% 1% 3% Hemorrhoids 2% 1% 1% 3% Abdominal pain upper 1% 3% 1% 1% Adverse reactions reported in another study of 701 women with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS were similar to those shown in Table 2. Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride tablets and occurring more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride tablets than with placebo included constipation (14% and 10% of patients taking alosetron hydrochloride tablets 1 mg twice daily or 0.5 mg as needed, respectively, compared with 2% taking placebo), abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and flatulence. Other events reported in 3% or more of patients who received alosetron hydrochloride tablets and occurring more frequently with alosetron hydrochloride tablets than with placebo included nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, viral gastroenteritis, and cough. Constipation: Constipation was the most frequent adverse reaction among women with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS represented in Table 2. There was a dose response in the groups treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets in the number of patients withdrawn due to constipation (2% on placebo, 5% on 0.5 mg once daily, 8% on 1 mg once daily, and 11% on 1 mg twice daily). Among these patients with severe diarrhea-predominant IBS treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets who reported constipation most (75%) reported one episode which occurred within the first 15 days of treatment and persisted for 4 to 5 days. Other Events Observed During Clinical Evaluation of Alosetron Hydrochloride Tablets: During its assessment in clinical trials, multiple and single doses of alosetron hydrochloride tablets were administered, resulting in 11,874 subject exposures in 86 completed clinical studies. The conditions, dosages, and duration of exposure to alosetron hydrochloride tablets varied between trials, and the studies included healthy male and female volunteers as well as male and female patients with IBS and other indications. In the listing that follows, reported adverse reactions were classified using a standardized coding dictionary. Only those events that an investigator believed were possibly related to alosetron hydrochloride tablets, occurred in at least 2 patients, and occurred at a greater frequency during treatment with alosetron hydrochloride tablets than during placebo administration are presented. Serious adverse reactions occurring in at least 1 patient for whom an investigator believed there was reasonable possibility that the event was related to treatment with alosetron hydrochloride tablets and occurring at a greater frequency in patients treated with alosetron hydrochloride tablets than placebo-treated patients are also presented. In the following listing, events are categorized by body system. Within each body system, events are presented in descending order of frequency. The following definitions are used: infrequent adverse reactions are those occurring on one or more occasion in 1/100 to 1/1,000 patients; rare adverse reactions are those occurring on one or more occasion in fewer than 1/1,000 patients. Although the events reported occurred during treatment with alosetron hydrochloride tablets, they were not necessarily caused by it. Blood and Lymphatic: Rare: Quantitative red cell or hemoglobin defects, and hemorrhage. Cardiovascular: Infrequent: Tachyarrhythmias. Rare: Arrhythmias, increased blood pressure, and extrasystoles. Drug Interaction, Overdose, and Trauma: Rare: Contusions and hematomas. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Rare: Ear, nose, and throat infections; viral ear, nose, and throat infections; and laryngitis. Endocrine and Metabolic: Rare: Disorders of calcium and phosphate metabolism, hyperglycemia, hypothalamus/pituitary hypofunction, hypoglycemia, and fluid disturbances. Eye: Rare: Light sensitivity of eyes. Gastrointestinal: Infrequent: Hyposalivation, dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal spasms, ischemic colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], and gastrointestinal lesions. Rare: Abnormal tenderness, colitis, gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, proctitis, diverticulitis, positive fecal occult blood, hyperacidity, decreased gastrointestinal motility and ileus, gastrointestinal obstructions, oral symptoms, gastrointestinal intussusception, gastritis, gastroduodenitis, gastroenteritis, and ulcerative colitis. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas: Rare: Abnormal bilirubin levels and cholecystitis. Lower Respiratory: Infrequent: Breathing disorders. Musculoskeletal: Rare: Muscle pain; muscle stiffness, tightness and rigidity; and bone and skeletal pain. Neurological: Infrequent: Hypnagogic effects. Rare: Memory effects, tremors, dreams, cognitive function disorders, disturbances of sense of taste, disorders of equilibrium, confusion, sedation, and hypoesthesia. Non-Site Specific: Infrequent: Malaise and fatigue, cramps, pain, temperature regulation disturbances. Rare: Burning sensations, hot and cold sensations, cold sensations, and fungal infections. Psychiatry: Infrequent: Anxiety. Rare: Depressive moods. Reproduction: Rare: Sexual function disorders, female reproductive tract bleeding and hemorrhage, reproductive infections, and fungal reproductive infections. Skin: Infrequent: Sweating and urticaria. Rare: Hair loss and alopecia; acne and folliculitis; disorders of sweat and sebum; allergic skin reaction; eczema; skin infections; dermatitis and dermatosis; and nail disorders. Urology: Infrequent: Urinary frequency. Rare: Bladder inflammation; polyuria and diuresis; and urinary tract hemorrhage. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to events reported in clinical trials, the following events have been identified during use of alosetron hydrochloride tablets in clinical practice. Because they were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to alosetron hydrochloride tablets. Gastrointestinal: Impaction, perforation, ulceration, small bowel mesenteric ischemia. Neurological: Headache. Skin: Rash."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vivo data suggest that alosetron is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, with minor contributions from CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance of alosetron. -CYP1A2 inhibitors: Avoid concomitant uses because of increased exposure and half-life of alosetron. Use with fluvoxamine is contraindicated. (4.3, 7.1) -CYP3A4 inhibitors: Use with caution in combination due to increased exposure of alosetron. (7.2) 7.1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors Fluvoxamine is a known strong inhibitor of CYP1A2 and also inhibits CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. In a pharmacokinetic study, 40 healthy female subjects received fluvoxamine in escalating doses from 50 to 200 mg/day for 16 days, with coadministration of alosetron 1 mg on the last day. Fluvoxamine increased mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant administration of alosetron and fluvoxamine is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.3)] . Concomitant administration of alosetron and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors, including quinolone antibiotics and cimetidine, has not been evaluated, but should be avoided unless clinically necessary because of similar potential drug interactions. 7.2 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole is a known strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a pharmacokinetic study, 38 healthy female subjects received ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily for 7 days, with coadministration of alosetron 1 mg on the last day. Ketoconazole increased mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) by 29%. Caution should be used when alosetron and ketoconazole are administered concomitantly. Coadministration of alosetron and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin, telithromycin, protease inhibitors, voriconazole, and itraconazole has not been evaluated but should be undertaken with caution because of similar potential drug interactions. The effect of induction or inhibition of other pathways on exposure to alosetron and its metabolites is not known. 7.3 Other CYP Enzymes In vitro human liver microsome studies and an in vivo metabolic probe study demonstrated that alosetron did not inhibit CYP enzymes 3A4, 2C9, or 2C19. In vitro at total drug concentrations 27-fold higher than peak plasma concentrations observed with the 1 mg dose, alosetron inhibited CYP enzymes 1A2 (60%) and 2E1 (50%). In an in vivo metabolic probe study, alosetron did not inhibit CYP2E1 but did produce 30% inhibition of both CYP1A2 and N-acetyltransferase. Although not studied with alosetron, inhibition of N-acetyltransferase may have clinically relevant consequences for drugs such as isoniazid, procainamide, and hydralazine. The effect on CYP1A2 was explored further in a clinical interaction study with theophylline and no effect on metabolism was observed. Another study showed that alosetron had no clinically significant effect on plasma concentrations of the oral contraceptive agents ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel (CYP3A4 substrates). A clinical interaction study was also conducted with alosetron and the CYP3A4 substrate cisapride. No significant effects on cisapride metabolism or QT interval were noted. The effects of alosetron on monoamine oxidases and on intestinal first pass secondary to high intraluminal concentrations have not been examined. Based on the above data from in vitro and in vivo studies, it is unlikely that alosetron will inhibit the hepatic metabolic clearance of drugs metabolized by the CYP enzymes 2C9, 2C19, or 2E1. Alosetron does not appear to induce the major cytochrome P450 drug-metabolizing enzyme 3A. Alosetron also does not appear to induce CYP enzymes 2E1 or 2C19. It is not known whether alosetron might induce other enzymes."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vivo data suggest that alosetron is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, with minor contributions from CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance of alosetron. CYP1A2 inhibitors: Avoid concomitant uses because of increased exposure and half-life of alosetron. Use with fluvoxamine is contraindicated. (4.3, 7.1) CYP3A4 inhibitors: Use with caution in combination due to increased exposure of alosetron. (7.2) 7.1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors Fluvoxamine is a known strong inhibitor of CYP1A2 and also inhibits CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. In a pharmacokinetic study, 40 healthy female subjects received fluvoxamine in escalating doses from 50 to 200 mg/ day for 16 days, with coadministration of alosetron 1 mg on the last day. Fluvoxamine increased mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3 fold. Concomitant administration of alosetron and fluvoxamine is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.3)]. Concomitant administration of alosetron and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors, including quinolone antibiotics and cimetidine, has not been evaluated, but should be avoided unless clinically necessary because of similar potential drug interactions. 7.2 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole is a known strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a pharmacokinetic study, 38 healthy female subjects received ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily for 7 days, with coadministration of alosetron 1 mg on the last day. Ketoconazole increased mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) by 29%. Caution should be used when alosetron and ketoconazole are administered concomitantly. Coadministration of alosetron and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin, telithromycin, protease inhibitors, voriconazole, and itraconazole has not been evaluated but should be undertaken with caution because of similar potential drug interactions. The effect of induction or inhibition of other pathways on exposure to alosetron and its metabolites is not known. 7.3 Other CYP Enzymes In vitro human liver microsome studies and an in vivo metabolic probe study demonstrated that alosetron did not inhibit CYP enzymes 3A4, 2C9, or 2C19. In vitro at total drug concentrations 27-fold higher than peak plasma concentrations observed with the 1 mg dose, alosetron inhibited CYP enzymes 1A2 (60%) and 2E1 (50%). In an in vivo metabolic probe study, alosetron did not inhibit CYP2E1 but did produce 30% inhibition of both CYP1A2 and N-acetyltransferase. Although not studied with alosetron, inhibition of N-acetyltransferase may have clinically relevant consequences for drugs such as isoniazid, procainamide, and hydralazine. The effect on CYP1A2 was explored further in a clinical interaction study with theophylline and no effect on metabolism was observed. Another study showed that alosetron had no clinically significant effect on plasma concentrations of the oral contraceptive agents ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel (CYP3A4 substrates). A clinical interaction study was also conducted with alosetron and the CYP3A4 substrate cisapride. No significant effects on cisapride metabolism or QT interval were noted. The effects of alosetron on monoamine oxidases and on intestinal first pass secondary to high intraluminal concentrations have not been examined. Based on the above data from in vitro and in vivo studies, it is unlikely that alosetron will inhibit the hepatic metabolic clearance of drugs metabolized by the CYP enzymes 2C9, 2C19, or 2E1. Alosetron does not appear to induce the major cytochrome P450 drug-metabolizing enzyme 3A. Alosetron also does not appear to induce CYP enzymes 2E1 or 2C19. It is not known whether alosetron might induce other enzymes."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vivo data suggest that alosetron is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, with minor contributions from CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance of alosetron. CYP1A2 inhibitors: Avoid concomitant uses because of increased exposure and half-life of alosetron. Use with fluvoxamine is contraindicated. (4.3, 7.1) CYP3A4 inhibitors: Use with caution in combination due to increased exposure of alosetron. (7.2) 7.1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors Fluvoxamine is a known strong inhibitor of CYP1A2 and also inhibits CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19. In a pharmacokinetic study, 40 healthy female subjects received fluvoxamine in escalating doses from 50 to 200 mg/ day for 16 days, with coadministration of alosetron 1 mg on the last day. Fluvoxamine increased mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) approximately 6-fold and prolonged the half-life by approximately 3-fold. Concomitant administration of alosetron and fluvoxamine is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.3)]. Concomitant administration of alosetron and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors, including quinolone antibiotics and cimetidine, has not been evaluated, but should be avoided unless clinically necessary because of similar potential drug interactions. 7.2 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole is a known strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. In a pharmacokinetic study, 38 healthy female subjects received ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily for 7 days, with coadministration of alosetron 1 mg on the last day. Ketoconazole increased mean alosetron plasma concentrations (AUC) by 29%. Caution should be used when alosetron and ketoconazole are administered concomitantly. Coadministration of alosetron and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin, telithromycin, protease inhibitors, voriconazole, and itraconazole has not been evaluated but should be undertaken with caution because of similar potential drug interactions. The effect of induction or inhibition of other pathways on exposure to alosetron and its metabolites is not known. 7.3 Other CYP Enzymes In vitro human liver microsome studies and an in vivo metabolic probe study demonstrated that alosetron did not inhibit CYP enzymes 3A4, 2C9, or 2C19. In vitro at total drug concentrations 27-fold higher than peak plasma concentrations observed with the 1 mg dose, alosetron inhibited CYP enzymes 1A2 (60%) and 2E1 (50%). In an in vivo metabolic probe study, alosetron did not inhibit CYP2E1 but did produce 30% inhibition of both CYP1A2 and N-acetyltransferase. Although not studied with alosetron, inhibition of N-acetyltransferase may have clinically relevant consequences for drugs such as isoniazid, procainamide, and hydralazine. The effect on CYP1A2 was explored further in a clinical interaction study with theophylline and no effect on metabolism was observed. Another study showed that alosetron had no clinically significant effect on plasma concentrations of the oral contraceptive agents ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel (CYP3A4 substrates). A clinical interaction study was also conducted with alosetron and the CYP3A4 substrate cisapride. No significant effects on cisapride metabolism or QT interval were noted. The effects of alosetron on monoamine oxidases and on intestinal first pass secondary to high intraluminal concentrations have not been examined. Based on the above data from in vitro and in vivo studies, it is unlikely that alosetron will inhibit the hepatic metabolic clearance of drugs metabolized by the CYP enzymes 2C9, 2C19, or 2E1. Alosetron does not appear to induce the major cytochrome P450 drug-metabolizing enzyme 3A. Alosetron also does not appear to induce CYP enzymes 2E1 or 2C19. It is not known whether alosetron might induce other enzymes."$$
