"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Prolonged erection and priapism have occurred in patients receiving CAVERJECT. To minimize the chances of this occurring, titrate CAVERJECT IMPULSE slowly to the lowest effective dose (2.1). Advise patients to seek immediate medical assistance for an erection that persists longer than 4 hours (5.1) Penile fibrosis has occurred in patients receiving CAVERJECT. Follow patients regularly to detect signs of penile fibrosis. Discontinue in patients who develop penile angulation, cavernosal fibrosis, or Peyronie's disease (5.2) Hypotension - injections of CAVERJECT IMPULSE can lead to increased peripheral blood levels of alprostadil, especially in patients with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage. Avoid use in patients with known cavernosal venous leakage (5.3) Injection site bleeding may occur in patients taking anticoagulants, such as warfarin or heparin. Compress the site of injection with an alcohol swab or sterile gauze for 5 minutes (5.4) Cardiovascular risk related to underlying medical conditions - Underlying treatable medical causes of erectile dysfunction should be diagnosed and treated prior to initiation of therapy (5.5) Risks of use in combination with other vasoactive medications injected intracavernosally - Safety and efficacy of combinations of CAVERJECT and other vasoactive agents have not been systematically studied. Use of such combinations is not recommended (5.6) Risk of needle breakage - CAVERJECT IMPULSE uses a superfine needle and cases of needle breakage have been reported. Careful instruction in proper patient handling and injection techniques may minimize this risk (5.7) Benzyl alcohol - CAVERJECT IMPULSE contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative (5.8) Counseling patients about sexually transmitted diseases. Counseling of patients about the protective measures necessary to guard against sexually transmitted disease including the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is advised. (5.9) 5.1 Prolonged Erection and Priapism Prolonged erection defined as erection lasting between 4 to 6 hours in duration occurred in 4% of 1,861 patients treated up to 18 months in studies of CAVERJECT Sterile Powder. The incidence of priapism (erections lasting more than 6 hours in duration) was 0.4%. In the event of an erection that persists longer than 4 hours, the patient should seek immediate medical assistance. If priapism is not treated immediately, penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency may result. To minimize the chances of prolonged erection or priapism, CAVERJECT IMPULSE should be titrated slowly to the lowest effective dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.1]. In addition, do not use CAVERJECT IMPULSE in patients who have conditions that predispose them to priapism, such as sickle cell anemia or sickle cell trait, multiple myeloma, or leukemia [see Contraindications (4) ]. 5.2 Penile Fibrosis The overall incidence of penile fibrosis, reported in clinical studies with CAVERJECT Sterile Powder was 3%. In one self-injection clinical study where duration of use was up to 18 months, the incidence of penile fibrosis was 7.8%. Physical examination of the penis, should be performed periodically to detect signs of penile fibrosis. Treatment with CAVERJECT IMPULSE should be discontinued in patients who develop penile angulation or cavernosal fibrosis. 5.3 Hypotension Intracavernous injections of CAVERJECT IMPULSE can increase peripheral blood levels of alprostadil which can result in hypotension. Avoid use of CAVERJECT IMPULSE in patients with known cavernosal venous leakage. 5.4 Injection Site Bleeding When Used With Anticoagulants Patients on anticoagulants, such as warfarin or heparin, may have increased propensity for injection site bleeding after intracavernosal injection with CAVERJECT IMPULSE. Compress the site of injection with an alcohol swab or sterile gauze for 5 minutes. 5.5 Cardiovascular Risk Related to Underlying Medical Conditions There is a potential for cardiac risk of sexual activity in patients with preexisting cardiovascular disease. Therefore, treatments for erectile dysfunction, including CAVERJECT IMPULSE, generally should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable because of their underlying cardiovascular status. In addition, the evaluation of erectile dysfunction should include a determination of potential underlying causes and the identification of appropriate treatment following a complete medical assessment. 5.6 Risks Of Use in Combination With Other Vasoactive Medications Injected Intracavernosally The safety and efficacy of combinations of CAVERJECT IMPULSE and other vasoactive agents injected intracavernosally have not been established in clinical studies. The risks of prolonged erection, priapism, and hypotension may be increased. 5.7 Needle Breakage CAVERJECT IMPULSE uses a superfine (29 gauge) needle. As with all superfine needles, the possibility of needle breakage exists and cases of needle breakage have been reported. Careful instruction in proper patient handling and injection techniques may minimize the potential for needle breakage. 5.8 Benzyl Alcohol The preservative benzyl alcohol contained in CAVERJECT IMPULSE has been associated with serious adverse events, including the \\\\"gasping syndrome\\\\", and death in pediatric patients. The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the hepatic capacity to detoxify the chemical. Premature and low-birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity. CAVERJECT IMPULSE is not indicated for pediatric patients. 5.9 Counseling Patients About Sexually Transmitted Diseases The use of CAVERJECT IMPULSE offers no protection against sexually transmitted diseases. Counseling of patients about the protective measures necessary to guard against sexually transmitted diseases, including the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is advised."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Prolonged Erection and Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Penile Fibrosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Most common (>=10%) adverse reactions: penile pain (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer at (1-800-438-1985 and www.pfizer.com) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. CAVERJECT IMPULSE was evaluated in 87 patients in an open-label crossover study of 6 weeks treatment duration that compared the formulation of alprostadil for injection contained in CAVERJECT IMPULSE with the formulation contained in CAVERJECT Sterile Powder. Doses used in this study ranged from 2.5 mcg to 20 mcg. Adverse reactions reported for the CAVERJECT IMPULSE formulation included: penis disorder (4.6%), prolonged erection (1.1%), injection site erythema (1.1%), rash (1.1%), dizziness (1.1%), and hematospermia (1.1%). Penis disorder included penile pain, post-injection pain, and pain with erection. CAVERJECT IMPULSE was also evaluated in 63 patients in a single-dose, double-blind, crossover study that compared CAVERJECT IMPULSE with CAVERJECT Sterile Powder. Doses used in this study ranged from 2.5 mcg to 20 mcg. Adverse reactions reported for the CAVERJECT IMPULSE formulation included: penile pain (1.6%) and pruritis (1.6%). In addition to the adverse reactions observed for CAVERJECT IMPULSE in these two studies, the following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical studies of CAVERJECT Sterile Powder: Local Adverse Reactions: Local adverse reactions derived from 1861 patients in clinical studies of CAVERJECT Sterile Powder, including an 18-month, open-label study, are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Local Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 1% of Patients Treated with CAVERJECT Sterile Powder for up to 18 Months Penile pain 37% Prolonged erection 4% Penile fibrosis 3% Injection site hematoma 3% Penis disorderPenis disorder includes: numbness, irritation, sensitivity, pruritus, erythema, skin tear, discoloration, itching. 3% Injection site ecchymosis 2% Penile rash 1% Penile edema 1% The following local adverse reactions were reported in < 1% of patients: injection site hemorrhage, injection site inflammation, injection site itching, injection site swelling, injection site edema, urethral bleeding, penile warmth, numbness, irritation, sensitivity, pruritus, erythema, painful erection, and abnormal ejaculation. In these studies, no local adverse reactions were reported in the 294 patients who received placebo, except for penile pain (2%). Penile Pain: In the majority of the cases, penile pain was rated mild or moderate in intensity. Three percent of patients discontinued treatment because of penile pain Prolonged Erection/Priapism: Prolonged erection was defined as an erection that lasted for 4 to 6 hours; priapism was defined as an erection that lasted 6 hours or longer. In clinical studies, the frequency of prolonged erection after intracavernosal administration of CAVERJECT Sterile Powder was 4%, while the frequency of priapism was 0.4% [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Penile Hematoma/Ecchymosis: In clinical studies the frequency of penile hematoma and ecchymosis was 3% and 2%, respectively. Systemic Adverse Reactions : Systemic adverse reactions reported by >= 1% of subjects in clinical studies of CAVERJECT Sterile Powder included: dizziness (1%). The following systemic adverse reactions, were reported in < 1% of patients: testicular pain, scrotal edema, hematuria, pelvic pain, hypotension, vasodilation, vasovagal reaction, diaphoresis, rash, and non-application site pruritus. Three patients (0.2%) discontinued due to symptomatic hypotension. No systemic adverse reactions were reported in the 294 patients who received placebo. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported: device malfunction/failure, drug ineffective and drug effect decreased."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The potential for pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions between alprostadil and other agents administered orally or intracavernosally has not been formally studied [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System Apnea has been reported in about 12% of the neonates treated (see WARNING box ). Other common adverse reactions reported have been fever in about 14% of the patients treated and seizures in about 4%. The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: cerebral bleeding, hyperextension of the neck, hyperirritability, hypothermia, jitteriness, lethargy, and stiffness. Cardiovascular System The most common adverse reactions reported have been flushing in about 10% of patients (more common after intraarterial dosing), bradycardia in about 7%, hypotension in about 4%, tachycardia in about 3%, cardiac arrest in about 1%, and edema in about 1%. The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: congestive heart failure, hyperemia, second degree heart block, shock, spasm of the right ventricle infundibulum, supraventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation. Respiratory System The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: bradypnea, bronchial wheezing, hypercapnia, respiratory depression, respiratory distress, and tachypnea. Gastrointestinal System See WARNINGS . The most common adverse reaction reported has been diarrhea in about 2% of the patients. The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: gastric regurgitation, and hyperbilirubinemia. Hematologic System The most common hematologic event reported has been disseminated intravascular coagulation in about 1% of the patients. The following events have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: anemia, bleeding, and thrombocytopenia. Excretory System Anuria and hematuria have been reported in less than 1% of the patients. Skeletal System Cortical proliferation of the long bones has been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Miscellaneous Sepsis has been reported in about 2% of the patients. Peritonitis has been reported in less than 1% of the patients. Hypokalemia has been reported in about 1%, and hypoglycemia and hyperkalemia have been reported in less than 1% of the patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System Apnea has been reported in about 12% of the neonates treated. (See WARNING box.) Other common adverse reactions reported have been fever in about 14% of the patients treated and seizures in about 4%. The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: cerebral bleeding, hyperextension of the neck, hyperirritability, hypothermia, jitteriness, lethargy, and stiffness. Cardiovascular System The most common adverse reactions reported have been flushing in about 10% of patients (more common after intraarterial dosing), bradycardia in about 7%, hypotension in about 4%, tachycardia in about 3%, cardiac arrest in about 1%, and edema in about 1%. The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: congestive heart failure, hyperemia, second degree heart block, shock, spasm of the right ventricle infundibulum, supraventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation. Respiratory System The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: bradypnea, bronchial wheezing, hypercapnia, respiratory depression, respiratory distress, and tachypnea. Gastrointestinal System See WARNINGS The most common adverse reaction reported has been diarrhea in about 2% of the patients. The following reactions have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: gastric regurgitation, and hyperbilirubinemia. Hematologic System The most common hematologic event reported has been disseminated intravascular coagulation in about 1% of the patients. The following events have been reported in less than 1% of the patients: anemia, bleeding, and thrombocytopenia. Excretory System Anuria and hematuria have been reported in less than 1% of the patients. Skeletal System Cortical proliferation of the long bones has been reported. See PRECAUTIONS. Miscellaneous Sepsis has been reported in about 2% of the patients. Peritonitis has been reported in less than 1% of the patients. Hypokalemia has been reported in about 1%, and hypoglycemia and hyperkalemia have been reported in less than 1% of the patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS edex(R), administered by intracavernous injection in doses ranging from 1 to 40 mcg per injection for periods up to 24 months, has been evaluated in clinical trials for safety in over 1,065 patients with erectile dysfunction. Discontinuation of therapy due to a side effect in clinical trials was required in approximately 9% of patients treated with edex(R) and in <1% of patients treated with placebo. Local Adverse Reactions The following local adverse reactions were reported in studies including 1,065 patients treated with edex(R) for up to two years. Penile Pain With use of up to 24 months, penile pain was reported at least once by 29% of patients during injection, 35% of patients during erection, and by 30% of patients after erection. On a per injection basis, 15% of injections were associated with penile pain. Penile pain was judged by patients to be mild in intensity for 80% of painful injections, moderate in intensity for 16% of painful injections, and severe in intensity for 4% of painful injections. The frequency of penile pain reports decreased over time; forty-one percent of the patients experienced pain during the first 2 months and 3% of the patients experienced pain during months 21-24. In placebo-controlled studies, penile pain was reported by 31% of patients after edex(R) and by 9% of patients after placebo injection. Prolonged Erection/Priapism Prolonged erections greater than four hours in duration occurred in 4% of all patients treated up to 24 months. In placebo-controlled studies, 3% of patients treated with edex(R) and <1% of patients treated with placebo reported prolonged erections greater than four hours. The incidence of priapism (erections greater than 6 hours in duration) was <1% with long-term use for up to 24 months. In the majority of cases, spontaneous detumescence occurred. A higher incidence of prolonged erections was found in younger patients (<40 years), non-diabetic patients, and patients with psychogenic etiology of erectile dysfunction. (See WARNINGS.) Hematoma/Ecchymosis In patients treated with edex(R) for up to 24 months, local bleeding, hematoma and ecchymosis were observed in 15%, 5% and 4% of patients, respectively. In placebo-controlled studies, the frequency of local bleeding was 6% with injection of edex(R) and 3% with injection of placebo. In most cases, these reactions were attributed to faulty injection technique. Local Adverse Reactions Reported by >=1% of Patients All Study PeriodsProtocol Numbers KU-620-001, KU-620-002, KU-620-003, F-8653. Local Reaction edex(R) Local Reaction edex(R) N = 1065 n (%) N = 1065 n (%) Penile pain during injection 305 (29) Ecchymosis 44 (4) Penile pain during erection 368 (35) Penile angulation 72 (7) Penile pain after erection 317 (30) Penile fibrosis 52 (5) Penile pain (other)Penile pain reported without an association to injection site or erection, such as pain in penis and scrotum, pain in glans penis, and burning penile pain. 116 (11) Cavernous body fibrosis 20 (2) Prolonged erection Peyronie's disease 11 (1) > 4 <= 6 Hours 44 (4) Faulty injection techniqueExamples include injection into glans penis, urethra or subcutaneously. 59 (6) > 6 Hours 6 (<1) Penis disorder 28 (3) Bleeding 158 (15) Erythema 17 (2) Hematoma 56 (5) Systemic Adverse Experiences The following systemic adverse experiences were reported in controlled and uncontrolled studies in >=1% of patients treated for up to 24 months with edex(R). Systemic Adverse Experiences Reported by >=1% of PatientsProtocol Numbers KU-620-001, KU-620-002, KU-620-003, F-8653. BODY SYSTEM Adverse Experience edex(R) N = 1065 n (%) BODY SYSTEM Adverse Experience edex(R) N = 1065 n (%) BODY SYSTEM Adverse Experience edex(R) N = 1065 n (%) RESPIRATORY CARDIOVASCULAR UROGENITAL Upper respiratory tract Hypertension 17 (2) Prostate disorder 15 (1) infection 58 (5) Myocardial infarction 13 (1) Testicular pain 13 (1) Sinusitis 14 (1) Abnormal ECG 12 (1) Inguinal hernia 11 (1) BODY AS A WHOLE Influenza-like symptoms 35 (3) METABOLIC/NURITIONAL DERMATOLOGIC Headache 20 (2) Hypertriglyceridemia 17 (2) Skin disorder 14 (1) Infection 18 (2) Hypercholesterolemia 12 (1) SPECIAL SENSES Pain 16 (2) Hyperglycemia 12 (1) Abnormal vision 11 (1) MUSCULOSKELETAL Back pain 23 (2) Leg pain 13 (1) Hemodynamic changes, manifested as increases or decreases in blood pressure and pulse rate, were observed during clinical studies but did not appear to be dose-dependent. Four patients (<1%) reported clinical symptoms of hypotension such as dizziness or syncope. edex(R) had no clinically important effect on serum or urine laboratory tests. Post-Marketing Adverse Experiences Needle breakage."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In-Clinic Titration: In the 2 largest double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled trials, 1511 patients received MUSE at least 1 time in the clinic setting. The most frequently reported drug-related side effects during in-clinic titration included pain in the penis (36%), urethra (13%), or testes (5%). These discomforts were most commonly reported as mild and transient, but about 7% of patients withdrew at this stage because of adverse events. Urethral bleeding/spotting and other minor abrasions to the urethra were reported in approximately 3% of patients. Symptomatic lowering of blood pressure (hypotension) occurred in 3% of patients; in addition, some lowering of blood pressure may occur without symptoms. Dizziness was reported in 4% of patients. Syncope (fainting) was reported by 0.4% of patients. (See WARNINGS ). Home Treatment: 996 patients (66% of those who began titration) were studied during the home treatment portion of 2 Phase III placebo-controlled studies. Fewer than 2% of patients discontinued from these studies primarily because of adverse events. The following table summarizes the frequency of adverse events reported by patients using MUSE or placebo. Adverse Events Reported by >=2% of Patients Treated with MUSE, and More Common than on Placebo, at Home in Phase III Placebo-Controlled Clinical Studies for up to 3 Months MUSE Placebo MUSE Placebo Event n = 486 n = 511 Event n = 486 n = 511 UROGENITAL SYSTEM BODY AS A WHOLE Penile Pain 32% 3% Flu Symptoms 4% 2% Urethral Burning 12% 4% Headache 3% 2% Minor Urethral Bleeding/ 5% 1% Pain 3% 1% Spotting Accidental Injury 3% 2% Testicular Pain 5% 1% Back Pain 2% 1% NERVOUS SYSTEM Pelvic Pain 2% <1% Dizziness 2% <1% RESPIRATORY Rhinitis 2% <1% Infection 3% 2% Other drug-related side effects observed during in-clinic titration and home treatment include swelling of leg veins, leg pain, perineal pain, and rapid pulse, each occurring in <2% of patients. Female Partner Adverse Events: The most common drug-related adverse event reported by female partners during placebo-controlled clinical studies was vaginal burning/itching, reported by 5.8% of partners of patients on active vs. 0.8% of partners of patients on placebo. It is unknown whether this adverse event experienced by female partners was a result of the medication or a result of resuming sexual intercourse, which occurred much more frequently in partners of patients on active medication. To report suspected adverse reactions, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-888-345-6873 or contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, fax 1-800-FDA-0178 or online at www.fda.gov/medwatch/report.htm."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local Adverse Reactions The following local adverse reaction information was derived from controlled and uncontrolled studies, including an uncontrolled 18-month safety study. Local Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 1% of Patients Treated with CAVERJECT for up to 18 MonthsExcept for penile pain (2%), no significant local adverse reactions were reported by 294 patients who received 1 to 3 injections of placebo. Event CAVERJECT N = 1861 Penile pain 37% Prolonged erection 4% Penile fibrosisSee General Precautions. 3% Injection site hematoma 3% Penis disorderIncludes numbness, yeast infection, irritation, sensitivity, phimosis, pruritus, erythema, venous leak, penile skin tear, strange feeling of penis, discoloration of penile head, itch at tip of penis. 3% Injection site ecchymosis 2% Penile rash 1% Penile edema 1% Penile Pain Penile pain after intracavernosal administration of CAVERJECT was reported at least once by 37% of patients in clinical studies of up to 18 months in duration. In the majority of the cases, penile pain was rated mild or moderate in intensity. Three percent of patients discontinued treatment because of penile pain. The frequency of penile pain was 2% in 294 patients who received 1 to 3 injections of placebo. Prolonged Erection/Priapism In clinical trials, prolonged erection was defined as an erection that lasted for 4 to 6 hours; priapism was defined as erection that lasted 6 hours or longer. The frequency of prolonged erection after intracavernosal administration of CAVERJECT was 4%, while the frequency of priapism was 0.4%. In the majority of cases, spontaneous detumescence occurred. To minimize the chances of prolonged erection or priapism, CAVERJECT should be titrated slowly to the lowest effective dose (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section). The patient must be instructed to immediately report to his physician or, if unavailable, to seek immediate medical assistance for any erection that persists for longer than 4 hours. If priapism is not treated immediately, penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency may result. Hematoma/Ecchymosis The frequency of hematoma and ecchymosis was 3% and 2%, respectively. In most cases, hematoma/ecchymosis was judged to be a complication of a faulty injection technique. Accordingly, proper instruction of the patient in self-injection is of importance to minimize the potential of hematoma/ecchymosis (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). The following local adverse reactions were reported by fewer than 1% of patients after injection of CAVERJECT: balanitis, injection site hemorrhage, injection site inflammation, injection site itching, injection site swelling, injection site edema, urethral bleeding, penile warmth, numbness, yeast infection, irritation, sensitivity, phimosis, pruritus, erythema, venous leak, painful erection, and abnormal ejaculation. Systemic Adverse Events The following systemic adverse event information was derived from controlled and uncontrolled studies, including an uncontrolled 18-month safety study. Systemic Adverse Events Reported by >= 1% of Patients Treated with CAVERJECT for up to 18 MonthsNo significant adverse events were reported by 294 patients who received 1 to 3 injections of placebo. Body System/Reaction CAVERJECT N = 1861 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2% Central Nervous System Headache 2% Dizziness 1% Musculoskeletal System Back pain 1% Respiratory System Upper respiratory infection 4% Flu syndrome 2% Sinusitis 2% Nasal congestion 1% Cough 1% Urogenital System Prostatic Disorderprostatitis, pain, hypertrophy, enlargement 2% Miscellaneous Localized painpain in various anatomical structures other than injection site 2% Traumainjuries, fractures, abrasions, lacerations, dislocations 2% The following systemic events, which were reported for < 1% of patients in clinical studies, were judged by investigators to be possibly related to use of CAVERJECT: testicular pain, scrotal disorder, scrotal edema, hematuria, testicular disorder, impaired urination, urinary frequency, urinary urgency, pelvic pain, hypotension, vasodilation, peripheral vascular disorder, supraventricular extrasystoles, vasovagal reactions, hypesthesia, non-generalized weakness, diaphoresis, rash, non-application site pruritus, skin neoplasm, nausea, dry mouth, increased serum creatinine, leg cramps, and mydriasis. Hemodynamic changes, manifested as decreases in blood pressure and increases in pulse rate, were observed during clinical studies, principally at doses above 20 micrograms and above 30 micrograms of alprostadil, respectively, and appeared to be dose-dependent. However, these changes were usually clinically unimportant; only three patients discontinued the treatment because of symptomatic hypotension. CAVERJECT had no clinically important effect on serum or urine laboratory tests."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local Adverse Reactions The following local adverse reaction information was derived from controlled and uncontrolled studies of CAVERJECT Sterile Powder, including an uncontrolled 18-month safety study. Local Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 1% of Patients Treated with CAVERJECT Sterile Powder for up to 18 MonthsExcept for penile pain (2%), no significant local adverse reactions were reported by 294 patients who received 1 to 3 injections of placebo. Event CAVERJECT N = 1861 Penile pain 37% Prolonged erection 4% Penile fibrosisSee General Precautions. 3% Injection site hematoma 3% Penis disorderIncludes numbness, yeast infection, irritation, sensitivity, phimosis, pruritus, erythema, venous leak, penile skin tear, strange feeling of penis, discoloration of penile head, itch at tip of penis. 3% Injection site ecchymosis 2% Penile rash 1% Penile edema 1% Penile Pain Penile pain after intracavernosal administration of CAVERJECT was reported at least once by 37% of patients in clinical studies of up to 18 months in duration. In the majority of the cases, penile pain was rated mild or moderate in intensity. Three percent of patients discontinued treatment because of penile pain. The frequency of penile pain was 2% in 294 patients who received 1 to 3 injections of placebo. Prolonged Erection/Priapism In clinical trials, prolonged erection was defined as an erection that lasted for 4 to 6 hours; priapism was defined as erection that lasted 6 hours or longer. The frequency of prolonged erection after intracavernosal administration of CAVERJECT was 4%, while the frequency of priapism was 0.4% (see WARNINGS). Hematoma/Ecchymosis The frequency of hematoma and ecchymosis was 3% and 2%, respectively. In most cases, hematoma/ecchymosis was judged to be a complication of a faulty injection technique. Accordingly, proper instruction of the patient in self-injection is of importance to minimize the potential of hematoma/ecchymosis (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). The following local adverse reactions were reported by fewer than 1% of patients after injection of CAVERJECT: balanitis, injection site hemorrhage, injection site inflammation, injection site itching, injection site swelling, injection site edema, urethral bleeding, penile warmth, numbness, yeast infection, irritation, sensitivity, phimosis, pruritus, erythema, venous leak, painful erection, and abnormal ejaculation. Systemic Adverse Events The following systemic adverse event information was derived from controlled and uncontrolled studies of CAVERJECT Sterile Powder, including an uncontrolled 18-month safety study. Systemic Adverse Events Reported by >= 1% of Patients Treated with CAVERJECT Sterile Powder for up to 18 MonthsNo significant adverse events were reported by 294 patients who received 1 to 3 injections of placebo. Body System/Reaction CAVERJECT N = 1861 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2% Central Nervous System Headache 2% Dizziness 1% Musculoskeletal System Back pain 1% Respiratory System Upper respiratory infection 4% Flu syndrome 2% Sinusitis 2% Nasal congestion 1% Cough 1% Urogenital System Prostatic DisorderProstatitis, pain, hypertrophy, enlargement 2% Miscellaneous Localized painPain in various anatomical structures other than injection site 2% TraumaInjuries, fractures, abrasions, lacerations, dislocations 2% The following systemic events, which were reported for < 1% of patients in clinical studies, were judged by investigators to be possibly related to use of CAVERJECT: testicular pain, scrotal disorder, scrotal edema, hematuria, testicular disorder, impaired urination, urinary frequency, urinary urgency, pelvic pain, hypotension, vasodilation, peripheral vascular disorder, supraventricular extrasystoles, vasovagal reactions, hypesthesia, non-generalized weakness, diaphoresis, rash, non-application site pruritus, skin neoplasm, nausea, dry mouth, increased serum creatinine, leg cramps, and mydriasis. Hemodynamic changes, manifested as decreases in blood pressure and increases in pulse rate, were observed during clinical studies, principally at doses above 20 mcg and above 30 mcg of alprostadil, respectively, and appeared to be dose-dependent. However, these changes were usually clinically unimportant; only three patients discontinued the treatment because of symptomatic hypotension. CAVERJECT had no clinically important effect on serum or urine laboratory tests. The safety of CAVERJECT IMPULSE was evaluated in a study that compared the formulation of alprostadil for injection contained in CAVERJECT IMPULSE with the formulation contained in CAVERJECT Sterile Powder. The doses used by the 87 patients in this crossover study were the same for both formulations. The number and type of events reported for CAVERJECT IMPULSE were consistent between formulations in this study and in other controlled and uncontrolled studies with CAVERJECT Sterile Powder. Post-Marketing Surveillance The following additional adverse reactions have been reported: device malfunction/failure, drug ineffective and drug effect decreased."$$
"Drug Interactions No drug interactions have been reported between alprostadil injection and the therapy standard in neonates with restricted pulmonary or systemic blood flow. Standard therapy includes antibiotics, such as penicillin and gentamicin; vasopressors, such as dopamine and isoproterenol; cardiac glycosides; and diuretics, such as furosemide."$$
"Drug Interactions No drug interactions have been reported between PROSTIN VR PEDIATRIC and the therapy standard in neonates with restricted pulmonary or systemic blood flow. Standard therapy includes antibiotics, such as penicillin and gentamicin; vasopressors, such as dopamine and isoproterenol; cardiac glycosides; and diuretics, such as furosemide."$$
"Drug Interactions The pharmacodynamic interaction between heparin (5,000 IU) and alprostadil intravenous infusion (90 mcg over 3 hours) was investigated. The results indicate significant changes in partial thromboplastin time (140% increase) and thrombin time (120% increase). Therefore, caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of heparin and edex(R). (Also, see drug-drug interaction studies in CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics subsection.)"$$
