"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS For subcutaneous use only; thrombus formation and pulmonary embolism have followed intravenous administration of APOKYN (5.1) Falling asleep during activities of daily living, and daytime somnolence may occur (5.3) Syncope and hypotension/orthostatic hypotension may occur (5.4, 5.5) Falls may occur, or increase (5.6) May cause hallucinations and psychotic-like behavior (5.7) May cause dyskinesia or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia (5.8) May cause problems with impulse control and impulsive behaviors (5.9) May cause coronary events (5.10) May prolong QTc and cause torsades de pointes or sudden death (5.11) 5.1 Serious Adverse Reactions After Intravenous Administration Following intravenous administration of APOKYN, serious adverse reactions including thrombus formation and pulmonary embolism due to intravenous crystallization of apomorphine have occurred. Consequently, APOKYN should not be administered intravenously. 5.2 Nausea and Vomiting APOKYN causes severe nausea and vomiting when it is administered at recommended doses. Because of this, in domestic clinical studies, 98% of all patients were pre-medicated with trimethobenzamide, an antiemetic, for three days prior to study enrollment, and were then encouraged to continue trimethobenzamide for at least 6 weeks. Even with the use of concomitant trimethobenzamide in clinical studies, 31% and 11% of the APOKYN-treated patients had nausea and vomiting, respectively, and 3% and 2% of the patients discontinued APOKYN due to nausea and vomiting, respectively. Among 522 patients treated, 262 (50%) discontinued trimethobenzamide while continuing APOKYN. The average time to discontinuation of trimethobenzamide was about 2 months (range: 1 day to 33 months). For the 262 patients who discontinued trimethobenzamide, 249 patients continued apomorphine without trimethobenzamide for a duration of follow-up that averaged 1 year (range: 0 years to 3 years). The ability of concomitantly administered antiemetic drugs (other than trimethobenzamide) to reduce the incidence of nausea and/or vomiting in APOKYN-treated patients has not been studied. Antiemetics with anti-dopaminergic actions (e.g., haloperidol, chlorpromazine, promethazine, prochlorperazine, metaclopramide) have the potential to worsen the symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease and should be avoided. 5.3 Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence There have been reports in the literature of patients treated with APOKYN subcutaneous injections who suddenly fell asleep without prior warning of sleepiness while engaged in activities of daily living. Somnolence is commonly associated with APOKYN, and it is reported that falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living always occurs in a setting of pre-existing somnolence, even if patients do not give such a history. Somnolence was reported in 35% of patients treated with APOKYN and in none of the patients in the placebo group. Prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness, especially since some of the events occur well after the start of treatment. Prescribers should also be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. Before initiating treatment with APOKYN, advise patients of the risk of drowsiness and ask them about factors that could increase the risk with APOKYN, such as concomitant sedating medications and the presence of sleep disorders. If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or falls asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), APOKYN should ordinarily be discontinued. If a decision is made to continue APOKYN, patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities. There is insufficient information to determine whether dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. 5.4 Syncope In clinical studies, approximately 2% of APOKYN-treated patients experienced syncope. 5.5 Hypotension / Orthostatic Hypotension Dopamine agonists, including APOKYN, may cause orthostatic hypotension at any time but especially during dose escalation. Patients with Parkinson's disease may also have an impaired capacity to respond to an orthostatic challenge. For these reasons, Parkinson's disease patients being treated with dopaminergic agonists ordinarily require careful monitoring for signs and symptoms of orthostatic hypotension, especially during dose escalation, and should be informed of this risk. Patients undergoing titration of APOKYN showed an increased incidence (from 4% pre-dose to 18% post-dose) of systolic orthostatic hypotension (>= 20 mmHg decrease) when evaluated at various times after in-office dosing. A small number of patients developed severe systolic orthostatic hypotension (>= 30 mmHg decrease and systolic BP <= 90 mmHg) after subcutaneous apomorphine injection. In clinical trials of APOKYN in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease, 59 of 550 patients (11%) had orthostatic hypotension, hypotension, and/or syncope. These events were considered serious in 4 patients (< 1%) and resulted in withdrawal of APOKYN in 10 patients (2%). These events occurred both with initial dosing and during long-term treatment. Whether or not hypotension contributed to other significant adverse events seen (e.g., falls), is unknown. APOKYN causes dose-related decreases in systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The hypotensive effects of APOKYN may be increased by the concomitant use of alcohol, antihypertensive medications, and vasodilators (especially nitrates). Patients should avoid alcohol when using APOKYN. Check blood pressure for hypotension and orthostatic hypotension in patients APOKYN with concomitant antihypertensive medications and/or vasodilators [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.6 Falls Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are at risk of falling due to underlying postural instability, possible autonomic instability, and syncope caused by the blood pressure lowering effects of the drugs used to treat PD. Subcutaneous APOKYN might increase the risk of falling by simultaneously lowering blood pressure and altering mobility [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. In clinical trials, 30% of patients had events that could reasonably be considered falls and about 5% of patients had falls that were considered serious. 5.7 Hallucinations / Psychotic-Like Behavior In clinical studies, hallucinations were reported by 14% of the APOKYN-treated patients. In one randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, hallucinations or confusion occurred in 10% of patients treated with APOKYN and 0% of patients treated with placebo. Hallucinations resulted in discontinuation of APOKYN in 1% of patients. Postmarketing reports indicate that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychotic-like behavior after starting or increasing the dose of APOKYN. Other drugs prescribed to improve the symptoms of Parkinson's disease can have similar effects on thinking and behavior. This abnormal thinking and behavior can consist of one or more of a variety of manifestations, including paranoid ideation, delusions, hallucinations, confusion, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium. Patients with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with APOKYN because of the risk of exacerbating psychosis. In addition, certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease and may decrease the effectiveness of APOKYN [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.8 Dyskinesias APOKYN may cause dyskinesia or exacerbate pre-existing dyskinesia. In clinical studies, dyskinesia or worsening of dyskinesia was reported in 24% of patients. Overall, 2% of APOKYN-treated patients withdrew from studies due to dyskinesias. 5.9 Impulse Control/Compulsive Behaviors Case reports suggest that patients can experience intense urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, intense urges to spend money uncontrollably, and other intense urges and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications, including APOKYN, that increase central dopaminergic tone and that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. In some cases, although not all, these urges were reported to have stopped when the dose was reduced or the medication was discontinued. Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal, it is important for prescribers to specifically ask patients or their caregivers about the development of new or increased gambling urges, sexual urges, uncontrolled spending or other urges while being treated with APOKYN. Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking APOKYN. 5.10 Coronary Events In clinical studies, 4% of patients treated with APOKYN experienced angina, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest and/or sudden death; some cases of angina and myocardial infarction occurred in close proximity to APOKYN dosing (within 2 hours), while other cases of cardiac arrest and sudden death were observed at times unrelated to dosing. APOKYN has been shown to reduce resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure and may have the potential to exacerbate coronary (and cerebral) ischemia in patients with known cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease. If patients develop signs and symptoms of coronary or cerebral ischemia, prescribers should re-evaluate the continued use of APOKYN. 5.11 QTc Prolongation and Potential for Proarrhythymic Effects There is a small dose related prolongation of QTc interval with doses of APOKYN greater than 6 mg [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Doses greater than 6 mg do not provide additional clinical benefit and are not recommended. Drugs that prolong the QTc interval have been associated with torsades de pointes and sudden death. The relationship of QTc prolongation to torsades de pointes is clearest for larger increases (20 msec and greater), but it is possible that smaller QTc prolongations may also increase risk, or increase it in susceptible individuals, such as those with hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, bradycardia, concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval, or genetic predisposition (e.g., congenital prolongation of the QT interval). Although torsades de pointes has not been observed in association with the use of APOKYN at recommended doses in clinical studies, experience is too limited to rule out an increased risk. Palpitations and syncope may signal the occurrence of an episode of torsades de pointes. The risks and benefits of APOKYN treatment should be considered prior to initiating treatment with APOKYN in patients with risk factors for prolonged QTc. 5.12 Withdrawal-Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion A symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome (characterized by elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, and autonomic instability), with no other obvious etiology, has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in antiparkinsonian therapy. 5.13 Melanoma Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson's disease have a higher risk (2- to approximately 6-fold higher) of developing melanoma than the general population. Whether the increased risk observed was due to Parkinson's disease or other factors, such as drugs used to treat Parkinson's disease, is unclear. For the reasons stated above, patients and providers are advised to monitor for melanomas frequently and on a regular basis when using APOKYN for any indication. Ideally, periodic skin examinations should be performed by appropriately qualified individuals (e.g., dermatologists). 5.14 Fibrotic Complications Cases of retroperitoneal fibrosis, pulmonary infiltrates, pleural effusion, pleural thickening, and cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in some patients treated with ergot-derived dopaminergic agents. While these complications may resolve when the drug is discontinued, complete resolution does not always occur. Although these adverse reactions are believed to be related to the ergoline structure of these dopamine agonists, whether other, nonergot derived dopamine agonists, such as APOKYN, can cause these reactions is unknown. 5.15 Priapism APOKYN may cause prolonged painful erections in some patients. In clinical studies, painful erections were reported by 3 of 361 APOKYN-treated men, and one patient withdrew from APOKYN therapy because of priapism. Although no patients in the clinical studies required surgical intervention, severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Retinal Pathology in Albino Rats In a 2-year carcinogenicity study of apomorphine in albino rat, retinal atrophy was detected at all subcutaneous doses tested (up to 0.8 mg/kg/day or 2 mg/kg/day in males or females, respectively; less than the maximum recommended human dose of 20 mg/day on a body surface area [mg/m2] basis). Retinal atrophy/degeneration has been observed in albino rats treated with other dopamine agonists for prolonged periods (generally during 2-year carcinogenicity studies). Retinal findings were not observed in a 39-week subcutaneous toxicity study of apomorphine in monkey at doses up to 1.5 mg/kg/day, a dose similar to the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis. The clinical significance of the finding in rat has not been established but cannot be disregarded because disruption of a mechanism that is universally present in vertebrates (e.g., disk shedding) may be involved."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of labeling: Nausea and Vomiting [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypotension/Orthostatic Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Falls [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hallucinations/Psychotic-Like Behavior [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Dyskinesias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Coronary Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence at least 10% greater on APOKYN than on placebo) were yawning, drowsiness/somnolence, dyskinesias, dizziness/postural hypotension, rhinorrhea, nausea and/or vomiting, hallucination/confusion, and edema/swelling of extremities (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact US WorldMeds at 1-877-727-6596 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the incidence of adverse reactions (number of unique patients experiencing an adverse reaction associated with treatment per total number of patients treated) observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the incidence of adverse reactions in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the incidence of adverse reactions observed in practice. In placebo-controlled trials, most patients received only one subcutaneous dose of APOKYN. All patients received concomitant levodopa and 86% received a concomitant dopamine agonist. All patients had some degree of spontaneously occurring periods of hypomobility (\\\\"off episodes\\\\") at baseline. The most common adverse reactions (APOKYN incidence at least 10% greater than placebo incidence) observed in a placebo-controlled trial were yawning, drowsiness/somnolence, dyskinesias, dizziness/postural hypotension, rhinorrhea, nausea and/or vomiting, hallucination/confusion, and edema/swelling of extremities. Table 1 presents the most common adverse reactions reported by APOKYN-naive Parkinson's disease patients who were enrolled in a randomized placebo-controlled, parallel group trial and who were treated for up to 4 weeks (Study 1) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Individual APOKYN doses in this trial ranged from 2 mg to 10 mg, and were titrated to achieve tolerability and control of symptoms. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Occurring in Two or More APOKYN-Treated Patients in Study 1 APOKYN (n = 20) PLACEBO (n = 9) % % Yawning 40 0 Dyskinesias 35 11 Drowsiness or Somnolence 35 0 Nausea and/or Vomiting 30 11 Dizziness or Postural Hypotension 20 0 Rhinorrhea 20 0 Chest Pain/Pressure/Angina 15 11 Hallucination or Confusion 10 0 Edema/Swelling of Extremities 10 0 Other Adverse Reactions Injection Site Reactions Patients treated with APOKYN subcutaneous injections during clinical studies, 26% of patients had injection site reactions, including bruising (16%), granuloma (4%), and pruritus (2%). In addition to those in Table 1, the most common adverse reactions in pooled APOKYN trials (occurring in at least 5% of the patients) in descending order were injection site reaction, fall, arthralgia, insomnia, headache, depression, urinary tract infection, anxiety, congestive heart failure, limb pain, back pain, Parkinson's disease aggravated, pneumonia, confusion, sweating increased, dyspnea, fatigue, ecchymosis, constipation, diarrhea, weakness, and dehydration."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of antihypertensive medications and vasodilators: increased risk for hypotension, myocardial infarction, pneumonia, falls, and injuries (7.2) Dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of APOKYN (7.3) 7.1 5HT3 Antagonists Based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when APOKYN was administered with ondansetron, the concomitant use of APOKYN with 5HT3 antagonists including antiemetics (for example, ondansetron, granisetron, dolasetron, palonosetron) and alosetron, is contraindicated. 7.2 Antihypertensive Medications and Vasodilators The following adverse events were experienced more commonly in patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive medications or vasodilators (n = 94) compared to patients not receiving these concomitant drugs (n = 456): hypotension 10% vs 4%, myocardial infarction 3% vs 1%, serious pneumonia 5% vs 3%, serious falls 9% vs 3%, and bone and joint injuries 6% vs 2%. The mechanism underlying many of these events is unknown, but may represent increased hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5, 5.6)]. 7.3 Dopamine Antagonists Since APOKYN is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that concomitant use of dopamine antagonists, such as the neuroleptics (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of APOKYN. Patients with major psychotic disorders, treated with neuroleptics, should be treated with dopamine agonists only if the potential benefits outweigh the risks. 7.4 Drugs Prolonging the QT/QTc Interval Caution should be exercised when prescribing APOKYN concomitantly with drugs that prolong the QT/QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trial Experience Adverse Events Incidence in Controlled Clinical Studies: APOKYN(R) has been administered to 550 Parkinson's disease patients who were taking some form of L-Dopa along with other Parkinson's disease medications. Eighty-six percent of patients were taking a concomitant dopamine agonist. All patients had some degree of spontaneously occurring hypomobility ("off episodes") at baseline. Adverse events were recorded by the clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing. To provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals having adverse events, similar types of events were grouped into a smaller number of standardized categories using MEDDRA dictionary terminology. The most common adverse events seen in controlled trials were yawning, dyskinesias, nausea and/or vomiting, somnolence, dizziness, rhinorrhea, hallucinations, edema, chest pain, increased sweating, flushing, and pallor. The most extensive experience with apomorphine in randomized, controlled trials comes from a multicenter randomized placebo-controlled parallel group trial conducted in apomorphine-naive PD patients treated for up to 4 weeks (Table 1). Individual apomorphine doses in this trial ranged from 2-10 mg, optimized to achieve control of symptoms comparable to each patient's response to his or her usual dose of L-dopa. The prescriber should be aware that these figures cannot be used to predict the incidence of adverse events in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in the clinical studies. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses, and investigators. However, the cited figures do provide the prescribing physician with some basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the adverse-event incidence rate in the population studied. Table 1 Summary of Adverse Events Occurring in Two or More Patients Adverse Event APOMORPHINE PLACEBO n = 20 n = 9 N % N % Any Adverse Reaction 17 85 8 89 Yawning 8 40 0 0 Dyskinesias 7 35 1 11 Drowsiness or Somnolence 7 35 0 0 Nausea and/or Vomiting 6 30 1 11 Dizziness or Postural Hypotension 4 20 0 0 Rhinorrhea 4 20 0 0 Chest Pain/Pressure/Angina 3 15 1 11 Hallucination or Confusion 2 10 0 0 Edema/Swelling of Extremities 2 10 0 0 Other Adverse Events Observed During All Phase 2/3 Clinical Trials: APOKYN has been administered to 550 patients; 89% had at least one adverse event (AE). The most common AEs in addition to those in Table 1 (occurring in at least 5% of the patients and at least plausibly related to treatment) in descending order were injection site complaint, fall, arthralgia, insomnia, headache, depression, urinary tract infection, anxiety, congestive heart failure, limb pain, back pain, Parkinson's disease aggravated, pneumonia, confusion, sweating increased, dyspnea, fatigue, ecchymosis, constipation, diarrhea, weakness, and dehydration. Post Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse events reported during clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of APOKYN(R) in Parkinson's disease patients. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following psychiatric disorders were reported: impulse control symptoms, pathological gambling, and increased libido (including hypersexuality)."$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions: Carbidopa/levodopa: Levodopa pharmacokinetics were unchanged when subcutaneous apomorphine and levodopa were co-administrated in patients. However, motor response differences were significant. The threshold levodopa concentration necessary for an improved motor response was reduced significantly, leading to an increased duration of effect without a change in the maximal response to levodopa therapy. Other Drugs Eliminated Via Hepatic Metabolism: Based upon an in vitro study, cytochrome P450 enzymes play a minor role in the metabolism of apomorphine. In vitro studies have also demonstrated that drug interactions are unlikely due to apomorphine acting as a substrate, an inhibitor, or an inducer of cytochrome P450 enzymes. COMT Interactions: A pharmacokinetic interaction of apomorphine with catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitors or drugs metabolized by this route is unlikely since apomorphine appears not to be metabolized by COMT.",$$
