"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity reactions: Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur. (5.2) Infection, fat overload, hyperglycemia and refeeding complications: Monitor for signs and symptoms; monitor laboratory parameters. (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7) 5.1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported. Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs. Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion. The safe and effective use of KABIVEN(R) injection in pediatric patients, including preterm infants, has not been established. KABIVEN(R) is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years including preterm infants. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop. Signs or symptoms may include: tachypnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, bronchospasm, tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis, vomiting, nausea, headache, sweating, dizziness, altered mentation, flushing, rash, urticaria, erythema, pyrexia and chills. 5.3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state. Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition, poor maintenance of catheters, or immunosuppressive effects of illness, drugs, and parenteral formulations. Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance, as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula. Monitor for signs and symptoms (including fever and chills) of early infections, including laboratory test results (including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device. 5.4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations. A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipid contained in KABIVEN(R) accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient's condition accompanied by fever, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorders, hyperlipidemia, liver fatty infiltration (hepatomegaly), deteriorating liver function, and central nervous system manifestations (e.g., coma). The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear. The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped. Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dosage was exceeded, cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions. 5.5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome, characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic. Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop. Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes, while avoiding overfeeding, to prevent these complications. 5.6 Diabetes/Hyperglycemia KABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of KABIVEN(R), hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing KABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during KABIVEN(R) administration. 5.7 Monitoring/Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration. Monitor fluid status closely in patients with heart failure or pulmonary edema. Monitor serum triglycerides, fluid and electrolyte status, serum osmolarity, blood glucose, liver and kidney function, and blood count, including platelet and coagulation parameters, throughout treatment. In situations of severely elevated electrolyte levels stop KABIVEN(R) until levels have been corrected. Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for signs and symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) is recommended. Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels. Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status. Increasing essential fatty acid intake (enterally or parenterally) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD. In KABIVEN(R), the mean composition of linoleic acid (an omega-6 essential fatty acid) is 21 mg/mL (range 19 to 23 mg/mL) and alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 essential fatty acid) is 2.6 mg/mL (range 2.0 to 4.3 mg/mL). There are insufficient long-term data to determine whether KABIVEN(R) can supply essential fatty acids in adequate amounts in patients who may have increased requirements. 5.8 Vein Damage and Thrombosis KABIVEN(R) is indicated for administration into a central vein only, such as the superior vena cava. The infusion of hypertonic nutrient injections into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation, vein damage, and/or thrombosis. 5.9 Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone-calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium-containing parenteral nutrition solutions, such as KABIVEN(R) in the same intravenous administration line. Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with KABIVEN(R) via a Y-site. However, ceftriaxone and KABIVEN(R) may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ s ee Dosage and Administration (2.1)] . 5.10 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition, including cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, hepatic steatosis, fibrosis and cirrhosis, possibly leading to hepatic failure. The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients. Increase of blood ammonia levels and hyperammonemia may occur in patients receiving amino acid solutions. In some patients this may indicate hepatic insufficiency or the presence of an inborn error of amino acid metabolism [see Contraindications (4)] or hepatic insufficiency. Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia. Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors, and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions. 5.11 Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment, such as pre-renal azotemia, renal obstruction and protein-losing nephropathy may be at increased risk of electrolyte and fluid volume imbalance. KABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. KABIVEN(R) dosage may require adjustment with specific attention to fluid, protein and electrolyte content in these patients. Monitor renal function parameters. Patients developing signs of renal impairment should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in renal disease in order to determine the appropriate KABIVEN(R) dosage and other treatment options. 5.12 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient's capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion, measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion (baseline value), with each increase in dosage, and regularly throughout treatment. Reduce dose of KABIVEN(R) and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg/dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia. Serum triglyceride levels above 1,000 mg/dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis. Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders, obesity, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome. In these cases, increased triglycerides can also be increased by dextrose and/or overfeeding. Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of lipid and dextrose, as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and dextrose metabolism. 5.13 Aluminum Toxicity KABIVEN(R) contains no more than 25 mcg/L of aluminum. The aluminum contained in KABIVEN(R) may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with impaired kidney function. Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including preterm infants, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products. 5.14 Interference with Laboratory Tests High levels of lipids in plasma may interfere with some laboratory blood tests such as hemoglobin, triglycerides, bilirubin, LDH, and oxygen saturation, if blood is sampled before lipid has been cleared from the bloodstream. Lipids are normally cleared after a lipid-free interval of 5 to 6 hours in most patients. KABIVEN(R) contains Vitamin K1 which may interfere with anticoagulant activity [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 5.15 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease (PNALD) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time, especially preterm infants, and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis. The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial. Intravenously administered phytosterols (plant sterols) contained in plant-derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been established. If KABIVEN(R) treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dosage reduction.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information. Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Fat Overload Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Refeeding Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Diabetes/Hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Vein Damage and Thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hepatobiliary Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.15 ) ] Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Hypertriglyceridemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Aluminum Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] The most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are nausea, pyrexia, hypertension, vomiting, decreased hemoglobin, decreased total protein, hypokalemia, decreased potassium, and increased gamma glutamyltransferase. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, Vigilance & Medical Affairs at 1-800-551-7176 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The clinical data described for KABIVEN(R) reflects exposure in 145 patients exposed for 7 days to 4 weeks in 7 active-controlled trials. The pooled population exposed to KABIVEN(R) was 25 to 87 years old, 35% female, 99% Caucasian. The enrolled patients had varied underlying conditions such as gastrointestinal disorders (41%) neoplasms (48%), vascular disorders (35%) and other surgical procedures (21%). Most patients received central intravenous infusion doses of >=80% of their target mean daily exposure. Adverse reactions occurring in at least 1% of patients who received KABIVEN(R) are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions in >1% of Patients Treated with KABIVEN(R) Adverse reaction KABIVEN(R) N=145 (%) Nausea 22 (15) Pyrexia 13 (9) Hypertension 12 (8) Vomiting 8 (6) Hemoglobin decreased 8 (6) Protein total decreased 6 (4) Hypokalemia 6 (4) Blood potassium decreased 6 (4) Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 6 (4) Hyperglycemia 3 (2) Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 2 (1) Blood calcium decreased 2 (1) Prothrombin time prolonged 2 (1) Pruritus 2 (1) Tachycardia 2 (1) * Terms as reported in clinical studies Less common adverse reactions in <=1% of patients who received KABIVEN(R) were hyperkalemia, hypertriglyceridemia, headache, dizziness, dysgeusia, rash, eczema, blood glucose increased, and increase in blood triglycerides. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of KABIVEN(R) in countries where it is registered. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Hepatobiliary disorders: cholestasis Infections and infestations: infection Nervous system disorders: subependymal hemorrhage",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives, including warfarin: Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted; monitor laboratory parameters. (7.1) 7.1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in KABIVEN(R) has vitamin K1. Vitamin K1 can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin and coumarin derivatives, including warfarin, which works by blocking recycling of vitamin K1. Monitor laboratory parameters for anticoagulant activity in patients who are on both KABIVEN(R) and coumarin or coumarin derivatives.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with 1670 infusions in premarketing studies were as follows: Non-specific side effects consisting of nausea, vomiting, headache, flushing, numbness and local venous irritation were reported in approximately 3% of the patients. One patient had an allergic reaction which was manifested as a confluent macular rash with reddening and swelling of the hands and face. The rash subsided rapidly after the infusion was terminated and 50 mg of diphenhydramine were administered. One patient had an apparent decrease in platelet count from 150,000 to 60,000. One patient with a history of acrocyanosis had an exacerbation of this condition following infusion of R-Gene 10. Post Marketing Experience The following adverse events have been reported during post-marketing use: extravasation leading to burn-like reaction and/or skin necrosis requiring surgical intervention, hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, and hematuria that in some cases occurred 1-2 days after an R-Gene 10 administration. Because these adverse events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions consisting of erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Electrolyte additives should be spread throughout the day. Irritating additive medications may need to be injected at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions of the infusion site consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis have been reported in the literature with peripheral amino acid infusions. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported in the literature during the peripheral administration of amino acids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS Too rapid infusion of these CLINIMIX E sulfite-free (Amino Acid with Electrolytes in Dextrose with Calcium) Injections may result in diuresis, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and hyperosmolar coma. Continual clinical monitoring of the patient is necessary in order to identify and initiate measures for these clinical conditions. Reactions that may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Policies and procedures should be established for the recognition and management of such reactions. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS Too rapid infusion of these CLINIMIX sulfite-free (Amino Acid in Dextrose) Injections may result in diuresis, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and hyperosmolar coma. Continual clinical monitoring of the patient is necessary in order to identify and initiate measures for these clinical conditions. Reactions that may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Policies and procedures should be established for the recognition and management of such reactions. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See \\\\"WARNINGS\\\\" and \\\\" Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition .\\\\" Reactions reported in clinical studies as a result of infusion of the parenteral fluid were water weight gain, edema, increase in BUN, and mild acidosis. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reaction at the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition. Reactions reported in clinical studies as a result of infusion of the parenteral fluid were water weight gain, edema, increase in BUN, and mild acidosis. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reaction at the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See \\\\"WARNINGS\\\\" and \\\\"Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition.\\\\" Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reactions of the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported during peripheral administration of amino acids. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See \\\\"WARNINGS\\\\" and \\\\"Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition\\\\" . Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reactions of the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported during peripheral administration of amino acids. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See Warnings and Special Precautions. Infusion of any hypertonic solution can result in local inflammatory reactions. Policies and procedures should be established for the recognition and management of such reactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect."$$
"Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques. Mix thoroughly. Do not store."$$
