"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Serious Rash, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome: discontinue NUVIGIL at the first sign of rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. (5.1) -Angioedema and Anaphylaxis Reactions: if suspected, discontinue NUVIGIL. (5.2) -Multi-organ Hypersensitivity Reactions: if suspected, discontinue NUVIGIL. (5.3) -Persistent Sleepiness: assess patients frequently for degree of sleepiness and, if appropriate, advise patients to avoid driving or engaging in any other potentially dangerous activity. (5.4) -Psychiatric Symptoms: use particular caution in treating patients with a history of psychosis, depression, or mania. Consider discontinuing NUVIGIL if psychiatric symptoms develop. (5.5) -Known Cardiovascular Disease: consider increased monitoring. (5.7) 5.1 Serious Rash, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Serious rash requiring hospitalization and discontinuation of treatment has been reported in association with the use of NUVIGIL (armodafinil) or modafinil (the racemic mixture of S- and R-enantiomers). NUVIGIL has not been studied in pediatric patients in any setting and is not approved for use in pediatric patients for any indication. In clinical trials of modafinil, the incidence of rash resulting in discontinuation was approximately 0.8% (13 per 1,585) in pediatric patients (age <17 years); these rashes included 1 case of possible Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and 1 case of apparent multi-organ hypersensitivity reaction. Several of the cases were associated with fever and other abnormalities (e.g., vomiting, leukopenia). The median time to rash that resulted in discontinuation was 13 days. No such cases were observed among 380 pediatric patients who received placebo. Rare cases of serious or life-threatening rash, including SJS, Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN), and Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) have been reported in adults and children in worldwide post-marketing experience. The reporting rate of TEN and SJS associated with modafinil use, which is generally accepted to be an underestimate due to underreporting, exceeds the background incidence rate. Estimates of the background incidence rate for these serious skin reactions in the general population range between 1 to 2 cases per million-person years. Cases of serious rash similar to those observed with modafinil including skin and mouth blistering have been reported in adults in postmarketing experience with NUVIGIL. There are no factors that are known to predict the risk of occurrence or the severity of rash associated with modafinil or armodafinil. Nearly all cases of serious rash associated with these drugs occurred within 1 to 5 weeks after treatment initiation. However, isolated cases have been reported after prolonged treatment (e.g., 3 months). Accordingly, duration of therapy cannot be relied upon as a means to predict the potential risk heralded by the first appearance of a rash. Although benign rashes also occur with NUVIGIL, it is not possible to reliably predict which rashes will prove to be serious. Accordingly, NUVIGIL should be discontinued at the first sign of rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. Discontinuation of treatment may not prevent a rash from becoming life-threatening or permanently disabling or disfiguring. 5.2 Angioedema and Anaphylaxis Reactions Angioedema and hypersensitivity (with rash, dysphagia, and bronchospasm), were observed with NUVIGIL. Patients should be advised to discontinue therapy and immediately report to their physician any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema or anaphylaxis (e.g., swelling of face, eyes, lips, tongue or larynx; difficulty in swallowing or breathing; hoarseness). 5.3 Multi-organ Hypersensitivity Reactions Multi-organ hypersensitivity reactions, including at least one fatality in post-marketing experience, have occurred in close temporal association (median time to detection 13 days: range 4-33) to the initiation of modafinil. A similar risk of multi-organ hypersensitivity reactions with armodafinil cannot be ruled out. Although there have been a limited number of reports, multi-organ hypersensitivity reactions may result in hospitalization or be life-threatening. There are no factors that are known to predict the risk of occurrence or the severity of multi-organ hypersensitivity reactions. Signs and symptoms of this disorder were diverse; however, patients typically, although not exclusively, presented with fever and rash associated with other organ system involvement. Other associated manifestations included myocarditis, hepatitis, liver function test abnormalities, hematological abnormalities (e.g., eosinophilia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia), pruritus, and asthenia. Because multi-organ hypersensitivity is variable in its expression, other organ system symptoms and signs, not noted here, may occur. If a multi-organ hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, NUVIGIL should be discontinued. Although there are no case reports to indicate cross-sensitivity with other drugs that produce this syndrome, the experience with drugs associated with multi-organ hypersensitivity would indicate this to be a possibility. 5.4 Persistent Sleepiness Patients with abnormal levels of sleepiness who take NUVIGIL should be advised that their level of wakefulness may not return to normal. Patients with excessive sleepiness, including those taking NUVIGIL, should be frequently reassessed for their degree of sleepiness and, if appropriate, advised to avoid driving or any other potentially dangerous activity. Prescribers should also be aware that patients may not acknowledge sleepiness or drowsiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. 5.5 Psychiatric Symptoms In pre-approval narcolepsy, OSA and SWD controlled trials of NUVIGIL, anxiety, agitation, nervousness, and irritability were reasons for treatment discontinuation more often in patients on NUVIGIL compared to placebo (NUVIGIL 1.2% and placebo 0.3%). Depression was also a reason for treatment discontinuation more often in patients on NUVIGIL compared to placebo (NUVIGIL 0.6% and placebo 0.2%). Cases of suicide ideation were observed in clinical trials. Caution should be exercised when NUVIGIL is given to patients with a history of psychosis, depression, or mania. If psychiatric symptoms develop in association with NUVIGIL administration, consider discontinuing NUVIGIL. Psychiatric adverse reactions have been reported in patients treated with modafinil. Modafinil and armodafinil (NUVIGIL) are very closely related. Therefore, the incidence and type of psychiatric symptoms associated with NUVIGIL are expected to be similar to the incidence and type of these events with modafinil. Post-marketing adverse reactions associated with the use of modafinil have included mania, delusions, hallucinations, suicidal ideation, and aggression, some resulting in hospitalization. Many, but not all, patients had a prior psychiatric history. One healthy male volunteer developed ideas of reference, paranoid delusions, and auditory hallucinations in association with multiple daily 600 mg doses of modafinil and sleep deprivation. There was no evidence of psychosis 36 hours after drug discontinuation. 5.6 Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machinery Although NUVIGIL has not been shown to produce functional impairment, any drug affecting the CNS may alter judgment, thinking or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about operating an automobile or other hazardous machinery until it is reasonably certain that NUVIGIL therapy will not adversely affect their ability to engage in such activities. 5.7 Cardiovascular Events In clinical studies of modafinil, cardiovascular adverse reactions, including chest pain, palpitations, dyspnea and transient ischemic T-wave changes on ECG were observed in three subjects in association with mitral valve prolapse or left ventricular hypertrophy. It is recommended that NUVIGIL tablets not be used in patients with a history of left ventricular hypertrophy or in patients with mitral valve prolapse who have experienced the mitral valve prolapse syndrome when previously receiving CNS stimulants. Findings suggestive of mitral valve prolapse syndrome include but are not limited to ischemic ECG changes, chest pain, or arrhythmia. If new onset of any of these findings occurs, consider cardiac evaluation. Blood pressure monitoring in short term (<= 3 months) pre-approval controlled trials of OSA, SWD, and narcolepsy showed small average increases in mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure in patients receiving NUVIGIL as compared to placebo (1.2 to 4.3 mmHg in the various experimental groups). There was also a slightly greater proportion of patients on NUVIGIL requiring new or increased use of antihypertensive medications (2.9%) compared to patients on placebo (1.8%). There was a small, but consistent, average increase in pulse rate over placebo in pre-approval controlled trials. This increase varied from 0.9 to 3.5 BPM. Increased monitoring of heart rate and blood pressure may be appropriate in patients on NUVIGIL. Caution should be exercised when prescribing NUVIGIL to patients with known cardiovascular disease.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: -Serious Rash, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Angioedema and Anaphylaxis Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Multi-organ Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Persistent Sleepiness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Psychiatric Symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machinery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Cardiovascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Most common adverse reactions (>=5%): headache, nausea, dizziness, and insomnia. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-896-5855 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. NUVIGIL has been evaluated for safety in over 1,100 patients with excessive sleepiness associated with OSA, SWD, and narcolepsy. Most Common Adverse Reactions In the placebo-controlled clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions (>= 5%) associated with the use of NUVIGIL more frequently than in placebo-treated patients were headache, nausea, dizziness, and insomnia. The adverse reaction profile was similar across the studies. Table 1 presents the adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of 1% or more and were more frequent in NUVIGIL-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients in the placebo-controlled clinical trials. Table 1. Adverse Reactions in Pooled Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials* in OSA, Narcolepsy, and SWD with NUVIGIL (150 mg and 250 mg) NUVIGIL (%) N=645 Placebo (%) N=445 * Adverse reactions that occurred in > 1% of NUVIGIL-treated patients and greater incidence than that of placebo. Headache 17 9 Nausea 7 3 Dizziness 5 2 Insomnia 5 1 Anxiety 4 1 Diarrhea 4 2 Dry Mouth 4 1 Depression 2 0 Dyspepsia 2 0 Fatigue 2 1 Palpitations 2 1 Rash 2 0 Upper Abdominal Pain 2 1 Agitation 1 0 Anorexia 1 0 Constipation 1 0 Contact Dermatitis 1 0 Decreased Appetite 1 0 Depressed Mood 1 0 Disturbance In Attention 1 0 Dyspnea 1 0 Hyperhydrosis 1 0 Increased Gamma-Glutamyltransferase 1 0 Increased Heart Rate 1 0 Influenza-Like Illness 1 0 Loose Stools 1 0 Migraine 1 0 Nervousness 1 0 Pain 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Polyuria 1 0 Pyrexia 1 0 Seasonal Allergy 1 0 Thirst 1 0 Tremor 1 0 Vomiting 1 0 Dose-Dependent Adverse Reactions In the placebo-controlled clinical trials which compared doses of 150 mg/day and 250 mg/day of NUVIGIL and placebo, the following adverse reactions were dose-related: headache, rash, depression, dry mouth, insomnia, and nausea. See Table 2 for additional information. Table 2. Dose-Dependent Adverse Reactions in Pooled Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials in OSA, Narcolepsy and SWD NUVIGIL 250 mg (%) N=198 NUVIGIL 150 mg (%) N=447 NUVIGIL Combined (%) N=645 Placebo (%) N=445 Headache 23 14 17 9 Nausea 9 6 7 3 Insomnia 6 4 5 1 Dry Mouth 7 2 4 <1 Rash 4 1 2 <1 Depression 3 1 2 <1 Adverse Reactions Resulting in Discontinuation of Treatment In placebo-controlled clinical trials, 44 of the 645 patients (7%) who received NUVIGIL discontinued due to an adverse reaction compared to 16 of the 445 (4%) of patients that received placebo. The most frequent reason for discontinuation was headache (1%). Laboratory Abnormalities Clinical chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis parameters were monitored in the studies. Mean plasma levels of gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) and alkaline phosphatase (AP) were found to be higher following administration of NUVIGIL, but not placebo. Few patients, however, had GGT or AP elevations outside of the normal range. No differences were apparent in alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total protein, albumin, or total bilirubin, although there were rare cases of isolated elevations of AST and/or ALT. A single case of mild pancytopenia was observed after 35 days of treatment and resolved with drug discontinuation. A small mean decrease from baseline in serum uric acid compared to placebo was seen in clinical trials. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effects of NUVIGIL on CYP3A4/5 Substrates The clearance of drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4/5 (e.g., steroidal contraceptives, cyclosporine, midazolam, and triazolam) may be increased by NUVIGIL via induction of metabolic enzymes, which results in lower systemic exposure. Dosage adjustment of these drugs should be considered when these drugs are used concomitantly with NUVIGIL [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The effectiveness of steroidal contraceptives may be reduced when used with NUVIGIL and for one month after discontinuation of therapy. Alternative or concomitant methods of contraception are recommended for patients taking steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) when treated concomitantly with NUVIGIL and for one month after discontinuation of NUVIGIL treatment. Blood levels of cyclosporine may be reduced when used with NUVIGIL. Monitoring of circulating cyclosporine concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustment for cyclosporine should be considered when used concomitantly with NUVIGIL. Effects of NUVIGIL on CYP2C19 Substrates Elimination of drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 (e.g., phenytoin, diazepam, propranolol, omeprazole, and clomipramine) may be prolonged by NUVIGIL via inhibition of metabolic enzymes, with resultant higher systemic exposure. Dose reduction of these drugs may be required when these drugs are used concomitantly with NUVIGIL. Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever NUVIGIL is coadministered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Caution should be used when concomitantly administering MAO inhibitors and NUVIGIL. -Steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol): use alternative or concomitant methods of contraception while taking NUVIGIL and for one month after discontinuation of NUVIGIL treatment. (7) -Cyclosporine: blood concentrations of cyclosporine may be reduced. (7) -CYP2C19 substrates, such as omeprazole, phenytoin, and diazepam: exposure of these medications may be increased.(7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Armodafinil has been evaluated for safety in over 1100 patients with excessive sleepiness associated with primary disorders of sleep and wakefulness. In clinical trials, armodafinil has been found to be generally well tolerated and most adverse experiences were mild to moderate. In the placebo-controlled clinical studies, the most commonly observed adverse events (>= 5%) associated with the use of armodafinil occurring more frequently than in the placebo-treated patients were headache, nausea, dizziness, and insomnia. The adverse event profile was similar across the studies. In the placebo-controlled clinical trials, 44 of the 645 patients (7%) who received armodafinil discontinued due to an adverse experience compared to 16 of the 445 (4%) of patients that received placebo. The most frequent reason for discontinuation was headache (1%). Incidence in Controlled Trials The following table (Table 3) presents the adverse experiences that occurred at a rate of 1% or more and were more frequent in patients treated with armodafinil than in placebo group patients in the placebo-controlled clinical trials. The prescriber should be aware that the figures provided below cannot be used to predict the frequency of adverse experiences in the course of usual medical practice, where patient characteristics and other factors may differ from those occurring during clinical studies. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be directly compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses, or investigators. Review of these frequencies, however, provides prescribers with a basis to estimate the relative contribution of drug and non-drug factors to the incidence of adverse events in the population studied. Table 3. Incidence > 1% (In Percent) Of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Experiences In Parallel-Group, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trialsa In OSA, Narcolepsy and SWD With Armodafinil (150 mg and 250 mg) System Organ Class MedDRA preferred term Armodafinil (Percent, N=645) Placebo (Percent, N=445) Cardiac Disorders Palpitations 2 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 7 3 Diarrhea 4 2 Dry Mouth 4 1 Dyspepsia 2 0 Abdominal Pain Upper 2 1 Constipation 1 0 Vomiting 1 0 Loose Stools 1 0 General Disorders And Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 2 1 Thirst 1 0 Influenza-Like Illness 1 0 Pain 1 0 Pyrexia 1 0 Immune System Disorders Seasonal Allergy 1 0 Investigations Gamma-Glutamyltransferase Increased 1 0 Heart Rate Increased 1 0 Metabolism And Nutrition Disorders Anorexia 1 0 Decreased Appetite 1 0 Nervous System Disorders Headache 17 9 Dizziness 5 2 Disturbance In Attention 1 0 Tremor 1 0 Migraine 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 5 1 Anxiety 4 1 Depression 2 0 Agitation 1 0 Nervousness 1 0 Depressed Mood 1 0 Renal And Urinary Disorders Polyuria 1 0 Respiratory, Thoracic And Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea 1 0 Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 2 0 Contact Dermatitis 1 0 Hyperhydrosis 1 0 a Four double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in SWD, OSA, and narcolepsy; incidence is rounded to the nearest whole percent. Included are only those events for which armodafinil incidence is greater than that of placebo. Dose Dependency of Adverse Events In the placebo-controlled clinical trials which compared doses of 150 mg/day and 250 mg/day of armodafinil and placebo, the only adverse events that appeared to be dose-related were headache, rash, depression, dry mouth, insomnia, and nausea. Table 4. Incidence (In Percent) Of Dose-Dependent, Treatment-Emergent Adverse Experiences By Dose and By Treatment In Parallel-Group, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials\\302\\252 In OSA, Narcolepsy and SWD With Armodafinil (150 mg and 250 mg) System Organ Class MedDRA preferred term Armodafinil 250 mg (Percent, N=198) Armodafinil 150 mg (Percent, N=447) Armodafinil Combined (Percent, N=645) Placebo (Percent, N=445) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 9 6 7 3 Dry Mouth 7 2 4 <1 Nervous System Disorders Headache 23 14 17 9 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 6 4 5 1 Depression 3 1 2 <1 Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 4 1 2 <1 \\302\\252 Four double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in SWD, OSA, and narcolepsy. Vital Sign Changes There were small, but consistent, increases in average values for mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure in controlled trials (See PRECAUTIONS ). There was a small, but consistent, average increase in pulse rate over placebo in controlled trials. This increase varied from 0.9 to 3.5 BPM. Laboratory Changes Clinical chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis parameters were monitored in the studies. Mean plasma levels of gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) and alkaline phosphatase (AP) were found to be higher following administration of armodafinil, but not placebo. Few subjects, however, had GGT or AP elevations outside of the normal range. No differences were apparent in alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, total protein, albumin, or total bilirubin, although there were rare cases of isolated elevations of AST and/or ALT. A single case of mild pancytopenia was observed after 35-days of treatment and resolved with drug discontinuation. A small mean decrease from baseline in serum uric acid compared to placebo was seen in clinical trials. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. ECG Changes No pattern of ECG abnormalities could be attributed to armodafinil administration in placebo-controlled clinical trials."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Armodafinil has been evaluated for safety in over 1100 patients with excessive sleepiness associated with primary disorders of sleep and wakefulness. In clinical trials, NUVIGIL has been found to be generally well tolerated and most adverse experiences were mild to moderate. In the placebo-controlled clinical studies, the most commonly observed adverse events (>= 5%) associated with the use of NUVIGIL occurring more frequently than in the placebo-treated patients were headache, nausea, dizziness, and insomnia. The adverse event profile was similar across the studies. In the placebo-controlled clinical trials, 44 of the 645 patients (7%) who received NUVIGIL discontinued due to an adverse experience compared to 16 of the 445 (4%) of patients that received placebo. The most frequent reason for discontinuation was headache (1%). Incidence in Controlled Trials The following table (Table 3) presents the adverse experiences that occurred at a rate of 1% or more and were more frequent in patients treated with NUVIGIL than in placebo group patients in the placebo-controlled clinical trials. The prescriber should be aware that the figures provided below cannot be used to predict the frequency of adverse experiences in the course of usual medical practice, where patient characteristics and other factors may differ from those occurring during clinical studies. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be directly compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses, or investigators. Review of these frequencies, however, provides prescribers with a basis to estimate the relative contribution of drug and non-drug factors to the incidence of adverse events in the population studied. Table 3. Incidence > 1% (In Percent) Of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Experiences In Parallel-Group, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials\\302\\252 In OSA, Narcolepsy and SWD With NUVIGIL (150 mg and 250 mg) System Organ Class MedDRA preferred term NUVIGIL (Percent, N=645) Placebo (Percent, N=445) Cardiac Disorders Palpitations 2 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 7 3 Diarrhea 4 2 Dry Mouth 4 1 Dyspepsia 2 0 Abdominal Pain Upper 2 1 Constipation 1 0 Vomiting 1 0 Loose Stools 1 0 General Disorders And Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 2 1 Thirst 1 0 Influenza-Like Illness 1 0 Pain 1 0 Pyrexia 1 0 Immune System Disorders Seasonal Allergy 1 0 Investigations Gamma-Glutamyltransferase Increased 1 0 Heart Rate Increased 1 0 Metabolism And Nutrition Disorders Anorexia 1 0 Decreased Appetite 1 0 Nervous System Disorders Headache 17 9 Dizziness 5 2 Disturbance In Attention 1 0 Tremor 1 0 Migraine 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 5 1 Anxiety 4 1 Depression 2 0 Agitation 1 0 Nervousness 1 0 Depressed Mood 1 0 Renal And Urinary Disorders Polyuria 1 0 Respiratory, Thoracic And Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea 1 0 Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 2 0 Contact Dermatitis 1 0 Hyperhydrosis 1 0 \\302\\252 Four double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in SWD, OSA, and narcolepsy; incidence is rounded to the nearest whole percent. Included are only those events for which NUVIGIL incidence is greater than that of placebo. Dose Dependency of Adverse Events In the placebo-controlled clinical trials which compared doses of 150 mg/day and 250 mg/day of NUVIGIL and placebo, the only adverse events that appeared to be dose-related were headache, rash, depression, dry mouth, insomnia, and nausea. Table 4. Incidence (In Percent) Of Dose-Dependent , Treatment-Emergent Adverse Experiences By Dose and By Treatment In Parallel-Group, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trialsa In OSA, Narcolepsy and SWD With NUVIGIL (150 mg and 250 mg) System Organ Class MedDRA preferred term NUVIGIL 250 mg (Percent, N=198) NUVIGIL 150 mg (Percent, N=447) NUVIGIL Combined (Percent, N=645) Placebo (Percent, N=445) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 9 6 7 3 Dry Mouth 7 2 4 <1 Nervous System Disorders Headache 23 14 17 9 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 6 4 5 1 Depression 3 1 2 <1 Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 4 1 2 <1 \\302\\252 Four double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in SWD, OSA, and narcolepsy. Vital Sign Changes There were small, but consistent, increases in average values for mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure in controlled trials (See PRECAUTIONS ). There was a small, but consistent, average increase in pulse rate over placebo in controlled trials. This increase varied from 0.9 to 3.5 BPM. Laboratory Changes Clinical chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis parameters were monitored in the studies. Mean plasma levels of gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) and alkaline phosphatase (AP) were found to be higher following administration of NUVIGIL, but not placebo. Few subjects, however, had GGT or AP elevations outside of the normal range. No differences were apparent in alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, total protein, albumin, or total bilirubin, although there were rare cases of isolated elevations of AST and/or ALT. A single case of mild pancytopenia was observed after 35-days of treatment and resolved with drug discontinuation. A small mean decrease from baseline in serum uric acid compared to placebo was seen in clinical trials. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. ECG Changes No pattern of ECG abnormalities could be attributed to NUVIGIL administration in placebo-controlled clinical trials."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Armodafinil has been evaluated for safety in over 1100 patients with excessive sleepiness associated with primary disorders of sleep and wakefulness. In clinical trials, NUVIGIL has been found to be generally well tolerated and most adverse experiences were mild to moderate. In the placebo-controlled clinical studies, the most commonly observed adverse events (>= 5%) associated with the use of NUVIGIL occurring more frequently than in the placebo-treated patients were headache, nausea, dizziness, and insomnia. The adverse event profile was similar across the studies. In the placebo-controlled clinical trials, 44 of the 645 patients (7%) who received NUVIGIL discontinued due to an adverse experience compared to 16 of the 445 (4%) of patients that received placebo. The most frequent reason for discontinuation was headache (1%). Incidence in Controlled Trials The following table (Table 3) presents the adverse experiences that occurred at a rate of 1% or more and were more frequent in patients treated with NUVIGIL than in placebo group patients in the placebo-controlled clinical trials. The prescriber should be aware that the figures provided below cannot be used to predict the frequency of adverse experiences in the course of usual medical practice, where patient characteristics and other factors may differ from those occurring during clinical studies. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be directly compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses, or investigators. Review of these frequencies, however, provides prescribers with a basis to estimate the relative contribution of drug and non-drug factors to the incidence of adverse events in the population studied. Table 3. Incidence > 1% (In Percent) Of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Experiences In Parallel-Group, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials\\302\\252 In OSA, Narcolepsy and SWD With NUVIGIL (150 mg and 250 mg) System Organ Class MedDRA preferred term NUVIGIL (Percent, N=645) Placebo (Percent, N=445) Cardiac Disorders Palpitations 2 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 7 3 Diarrhea 4 2 Dry Mouth 4 1 Dyspepsia 2 0 Abdominal Pain Upper 2 1 Constipation 1 0 Vomiting 1 0 Loose Stools 1 0 General Disorders And Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 2 1 Thirst 1 0 Influenza-Like Illness 1 0 Pain 1 0 Pyrexia 1 0 Immune System Disorders Seasonal Allergy 1 0 Investigations Gamma-Glutamyltransferase Increased 1 0 Heart Rate Increased 1 0 Metabolism And Nutrition Disorders Anorexia 1 0 Decreased Appetite 1 0 Nervous System Disorders Headache 17 9 Dizziness 5 2 Disturbance In Attention 1 0 Tremor 1 0 Migraine 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 5 1 Anxiety 4 1 Depression 2 0 Agitation 1 0 Nervousness 1 0 Depressed Mood 1 0 Renal And Urinary Disorders Polyuria 1 0 Respiratory, Thoracic And Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea 1 0 Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 2 0 Contact Dermatitis 1 0 Hyperhydrosis 1 0 \\302\\252 Four double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in SWD, OSA, and narcolepsy; incidence is rounded to the nearest whole percent. Included are only those events for which NUVIGIL incidence is greater than that of placebo. Dose Dependency of Adverse Events In the placebo-controlled clinical trials which compared doses of 150 mg/day and 250 mg/day of NUVIGIL and placebo, the only adverse events that appeared to be dose-related were headache, rash, depression, dry mouth, insomnia, and nausea. Table 4. Incidence (In Percent) Of Dose-Dependent , Treatment-Emergent Adverse Experiences By Dose and By Treatment In Parallel-Group, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trialsa In OSA, Narcolepsy and SWD With NUVIGIL (150 mg and 250 mg) System Organ Class MedDRA preferred term NUVIGIL 250 mg (Percent, N=198) NUVIGIL 150 mg (Percent, N=447) NUVIGIL Combined (Percent, N=645) Placebo (Percent, N=445) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 9 6 7 3 Dry Mouth 7 2 4 <1 Nervous System Disorders Headache 23 14 17 9 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 6 4 5 1 Depression 3 1 2 <1 Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 4 1 2 <1 \\302\\252 Four double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in SWD, OSA, and narcolepsy. Vital Sign Changes There were small, but consistent, increases in average values for mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure in controlled trials (See PRECAUTIONS). There was a small, but consistent, average increase in pulse rate over placebo in controlled trials. This increase varied from 0.9 to 3.5 BPM. Laboratory Changes Clinical chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis parameters were monitored in the studies. Mean plasma levels of gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) and alkaline phosphatase (AP) were found to be higher following administration of NUVIGIL, but not placebo. Few subjects, however, had GGT or AP elevations outside of the normal range. No differences were apparent in alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, total protein, albumin, or total bilirubin, although there were rare cases of isolated elevations of AST and/or ALT. A single case of mild pancytopenia was observed after 35-days of treatment and resolved with drug discontinuation. A small mean decrease from baseline in serum uric acid compared to placebo was seen in clinical trials. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. ECG Changes No pattern of ECG abnormalities could be attributed to NUVIGIL administration in placebo-controlled clinical trials."$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions The existence of multiple pathways for armodafinil metabolism, as well as the fact that a non-CYP-related pathway is the most rapid in metabolizing armodafinil, suggest that there is a low probability of substantive effects on the overall pharmacokinetic profile of NUVIGIL due to CYP inhibition by concomitant medications. In vitro data demonstrated that armodafinil shows a weak inductive response for CYP1A2 and possibly CYP3A activities in a concentration-related manner and that CYP2C19 activity is reversibly inhibited by armodafinil. Other CYP activities did not appear to be affected by armodafinil. An in vitro study demonstrated that armodafinil is a substrate of P-glycoprotein. Chronic administration of NUVIGIL at 250 mg reduced the systemic exposure to midazolam by 32% and 17% after single oral (5 mg) and intravenous (2 mg) doses, respectively, suggesting that administration of NUVIGIL moderately induces CYP3A activity. Drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4/5, such as cyclosporine, may require dosage adjustment. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Chronic administration of NUVIGIL at 250 mg did not affect the pharmacokinetics of caffeine (200 mg), a probe substrate for CYP1A2 activity. Coadministration of a single 400-mg dose of NUVIGIL with omeprazole (40 mg) increased systemic exposure to omeprazole by approximately 40%, indicating that armodafinil moderately inhibits CYP2C19 activity. Drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 may require dosage reduction. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ).",$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions The existence of multiple pathways for armodafinil metabolism, as well as the fact that a non-CYP-related pathway is the most rapid in metabolizing armodafinil, suggest that there is a low probability of substantive effects on the overall pharmacokinetic profile of NUVIGIL due to CYP inhibition by concomitant medications. In vitro data demonstrated that armodafinil shows a weak inductive response for CYP1A2 and possibly CYP3A activities in a concentration-related manner and that CYP2C19 activity is reversibly inhibited by armodafinil. Other CYP activities did not appear to be affected by armodafinil. An in vitro study demonstrated that armodafinil is a substrate of P-glycoprotein. Chronic administration of NUVIGIL at 250 mg reduced the systemic exposure to midazolam by 32% and 17% after single oral (5 mg) and intravenous (2 mg) doses, respectively, suggesting that administration of NUVIGIL moderately induces CYP3A activity. Drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4/5, such as cyclosporine, may require dosage adjustment. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions). Chronic administration of NUVIGIL at 250 mg did not affect the pharmacokinetics of caffeine (200 mg), a probe substrate for CYP1A2 activity. Coadministration of a single 400-mg dose of NUVIGIL with omeprazole (40 mg) increased systemic exposure to omeprazole by approximately 40%, indicating that armodafinil moderately inhibits CYP2C19 activity. Drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 may require dosage reduction. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions).",$$
"Drug Interactions Potential Interactions with Drugs That Inhibit, Induce, or Are Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes and Other Hepatic Enzymes Due to the partial involvement of CYP3A enzymes in the metabolic elimination of armodafinil, coadministration of potent inducers of CYP3A4/5 (e.g., carbamazepine, phenobarbital, rifampin) or inhibitors of CYP3A4/5 (e.g., ketoconazole, erythromycin) could alter the plasma levels of armodafinil. The Potential of Armodafinil to Alter the Metabolism of Other Drugs by Enzyme Induction or Inhibition Drugs Metabolized by CYP1A2 In vitro data demonstrated that armodafinil shows a weak inductive response for CYP1A2 and possibly CYP3A activities in a concentration related manner and demonstrated that CYP2C19 activity is reversibly inhibited by armodafinil. However, the effect on CYP1A2 activity was not observed clinically in an interaction study performed with caffeine (See Pharmacokinetics , Drug-Drug Interactions ). Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4/5 (e.g., cyclosporine, ethinyl estradiol, midazolam and triazolam) Chronic administration of armodafinil resulted in moderate induction of CYP3A activity. Hence, the effectiveness of drugs that are substrates for CYP3A enzymes (e.g., cyclosporine, ethinyl estradiol, midazolam and triazolam) may be reduced after initiation of concurrent treatment with armodafinil. A 32% reduction in systemic exposure of oral midazolam was seen upon concomitant administration of armodafinil with midazolam. Dose adjustment may be required (See Pharmacokinetics , Drug-Drug Interactions ). Such effects (reduced concentrations) were also seen upon concomitant administration of modafinil with cyclosporine, ethinyl estradiol, and triazolam. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 (e.g., omeprazole, diazepam, phenytoin, and propranolol) Administration of armodafinil resulted in moderate inhibition of CYP2C19 activity. Hence, dosage reduction may be required for some drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 (e.g., phenytoin, diazepam, and propranolol, omeprazole and clomipramine) when used concurrently with armodafinil. A 40% increase in exposure was seen upon concomitant administration of armodafinil with omeprazole. (See Pharmacokinetics , Drug-Drug Interactions ). Interactions with CNS Active Drugs Data specific to armodafinil drug-drug interaction potential with CNS active drugs are not available. However, the following available drug-drug interaction information on modafinil should be applicable to armodafinil. (See DESCRIPTION and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Concomitant administration of modafinil with methylphenidate, or dextroamphetamine produced no significant alterations on the pharmacokinetic profile of modafinil or either stimulant, even though the absorption of modafinil was delayed for approximately one hour. Concomitant modafinil or clomipramine did not alter the PK profile of either drug; however, one incident of increased levels of clomipramine and its active metabolite desmethylclomipramine was reported in a patient with narcolepsy during treatment with modafinil. Data specific to armodafinil or modafinil drug-drug interaction potential with Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) inhibitors are not available. Therefore, caution should be used when concomitantly administering MAO inhibitors and armodafinil . Interactions with Other Drugs Data specific to armodafinil drug-drug interaction potential for additional other drugs are not available. However, the following available drug-drug interaction information on modafinil should be applicable to armodafinil. Warfarin - Concomitant administration of modafinil with warfarin did not produce significant changes in the pharmacokinetic profiles of R- and S-warfarin. However, since only a single dose of warfarin was tested in this study, a pharmacodynamic interaction cannot be ruled out. Therefore, more frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever armodafinil is coadministered with warfarin."$$
