"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin (5.1) - Risk of Aluminum Toxicity: For at risk patients (renal failure or those with prolonged therapy), consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels (5.2) - Low Vitamin A levels: Monitor vitamin A levels (5.3) - Allergic Reactions: to thiamine may occur (5.4) - Hypervitaminosis A: Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk (5.5) - Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis: Avoid during testing for this disorder (5.6) - Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excess: Monitor blood vitamin concentrations (5.7) - False Negative Urine Glucose Tests: Due to vitamin C (5.8) 5.1 Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin M.V.I.-Adult contains Vitamin K which may decrease the anticoagulant effect of warfarin. In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving M.V.I-Adult, prothrombin time/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if the dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.2 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-Adult(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with renal impairment. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 micrograms per kg per day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. To prevent aluminum toxicity monitor periodically aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of M.V.I.-Adult. 5.3 Risk of Low Vitamin A Levels Vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations after administration of M.V.I.-Adult(TM). Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-Adult(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylaxis following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylaxis reactions associated with M.V.I. Adult(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-Adult(TM), should be undertaken with caution [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7)]. Blood levels of Vitamin A should be monitored periodically. 5.6 Interference with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia M.V.I-Adult contains folic acid and cyanocobalamin which can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in patients with megaloblastic anemia. Avoid the use of M.V.I.-Adult(TM) in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. 5.7 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-Adult(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-Adult(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I.-Adult(TM) contains Vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis, ileus, gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation, gastric retention, toxic colitis, or toxic megacolon General Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of MoviPrep. If a patient experiences severe bloating, abdominal distention, or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate tests should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of MoviPrep(R). Phenylketonurics: MoviPrep contains phenylalanine - a maximum of 2.33 mg of phenylalanine per treatment. No additional ingredients (e.g., flavorings) should be added to the MoviPrep solution. Since MoviPrep contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency especially G-6-PD deficiency patients with an active infection, with a history of hemolysis, or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions. 5.1 SeizuresThere have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with use of polyethylene glycol colon preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia). The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Therefore, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [such as diuretics or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors] or in patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (sodium, potassium, calcium, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment - encourage adequate hydration, assess concurrent medications, and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function - use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration \\342\\200\\224observe during administration (5.7) Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G-6-PD) - use with caution (5.8) Contains phenylalanine (5.9) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of MoviPrep. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking MoviPrep consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with MoviPrep. MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] or in patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. Consider performing pre-dose and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (sodium, potassium, calcium, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)] 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use with caution in patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing pre-dose and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 (Colonic) Mucosal Ulceration, Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and MoviPrep may increase the risk and is not recommended. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease. 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering MoviPrep. If a patient experiences severe bloating, abdominal distension, or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until symptoms abate. Use with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of MoviPrep. Use with caution in these patients. 5.8 Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) Deficiency Since MoviPrep contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency, especially G-6-PD deficiency patients with an active infection, with a history of hemolysis, or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions. 5.9 Contains Phenylalanine Phenylketonurics: Contains aspartame 233 mg per treatment which corresponds to 131 mg of phenylalanine per treatment (after hydrolysis of the aspartame molecule in-vivo to aspartic acid and phenylalanine).",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. (5.1) Studies have shown that vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in inadequate vitamin A administration in the doses recommended with M.V.I.-12(TM). (5.2) Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. (5.3) Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine. (5.4) Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. (5.5) Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to the blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. (5.6) Blood vitamin concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. (5.7) Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause negative urine glucose determination. (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-12(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Adherence of Vitamin A to Plastic Studies have shown that vitamin A, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM), may adhere to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations in the administered M.V.I.-12(TM) doses. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 5.3 Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I.-12(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-12(TM), should be undertaken with caution [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7) ]. 5.6 Blood Sampling of Megaloblastic Anemia Patients Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the M.V.I.-12(TM) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.7 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-12(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-12(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I-12(TM) contains Vitamin C, which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. (5.1) -Studies have shown that vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in inadequate vitamin A administration in the doses recommended with M.V.I.-12(TM). (5.2) -Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. (5.3) -Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine. (5.4) -Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. (5.5) -Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to the blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. (5.6) -Blood vitamin concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. (5.7) -Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause negative urine glucose determination. (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-12(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 microgram per kg per day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Adherence of Vitamin A to Plastic Studies have shown that vitamin A, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM) may adhere to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations in the administered M.V.I.-12(TM) doses. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 5.3 Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I.-12(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-12(TM), should be undertaken with caution [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 and 8.7) ]. 5.6 Blood Sampling of Megaloblastic Anemia Patients Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the M.V.I.-12(TM) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.7 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-12(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-12(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I-12(TM) contains Vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Studies ExperienceIn the MoviPrep trials, abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain were some of the most common adverse reactions to MoviPrep administration. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of MoviPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse reaction in the clinical studies. Tables 1 and 2 display the most common drug-related adverse reactions of MoviPrep and its comparator in the controlled MoviPrep trials. Table 1: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions* (>= 2%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution MoviPrep(R) (split dose) N=180 4L PEG + E  N=179 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Malaise 35 (19.4) 32 (17.9) Nausea 26 (14.4) 36 (20.1) Abdominal pain 24 (13.3) 27 (15.1) Vomiting 14 (7.8) 23 (12.8) Upper abdominal pain 10 (5.6) 11 (6.1) Dyspepsia 5 (2.8) 2 (1.1) * Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug.  4L PEG + E is 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution Table 2: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions* (>= 5%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution MoviPrep(R) (evening-only) (full dose) N=169 90 mL OSPS  N=171 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Abdominal distension 101 (59.8) 70 (40.9) Anal discomfort 87 (51.5) 89 (52.0) Thirst 80 (47.3) 112 (65.5) Nausea 80 (47.3) 80 (46.8) Abdominal paint 66 (39.1) 55 (32.2) Sleep disorder 59 (34.9) 49 (28.7) Rigors 57 (33.7) 51 (29.8) Hunger 51 (30.2) 121 (70.8) Malaise 45 (26.6) 90 (52.6) Vomiting 12 (7.1) 14 (8.2) Dizziness 11 (6.5) 31 (18.1) Headache 3 (1.8) 9 (5.3) Hypokalemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) Hyperphosphatemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) * Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. In addition to the recording of spontaneous adverse events, patients were also specifically asked about the occurrence of the following symptoms: shivering, anal irritations, abdominal bloating or fullness, sleep loss, nausea, vomiting, weakness, hunger sensation, abdominal cramps or pain, thirst sensation, and dizziness.  OSPS is Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and anaphylactic reaction have been reported with PEG-based products and may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse events following the administration of PEG-based products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events included upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, and acute pulmonary edema after aspirating the PEG-based preparation. 6.2 Postmarketing ExperienceIn addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of MoviPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to MoviPrep, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, urticaria, lip and facial swelling, dyspnea, chest tightness and throat tightness."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions for split dosing (incidence \\302\\263 5%) are malaise, nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, and upper abdominal pain (6). The most common adverse reactions for evening only dosing (incidence \\302\\263 5%) are abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, abdominal pain, sleep disorder, rigors, hunger, malaise, vomiting, and dizziness (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-508-0024 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In the MoviPrep trials, abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain were some of the most common adverse reactions to MoviPrep administration. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of MoviPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse reaction in the clinical studies. Tables 1 and 2 display the most common drug-related adverse reactions of MoviPrep and its comparator in the controlled MoviPrep trials. Table 1: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions1 (>= 2%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 4 Liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution MoviPrep(R) (split dose) N=180 4L PEG + E2 N=179 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Malaise 35 (19.4) 32 (17.9) Nausea 26 (14.4) 36 (20.1) Abdominal pain 24 (13.3) 27 (15.1) Vomiting 14 (7.8) 23 (12.8) Upper abdominal pain 10 (5.6) 11 (6.1) Dyspepsia 5 (2.8) 2 (1.1) 1 Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. 2 4L PEG + E is 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution Table 2: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions1 (>= 5%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution MoviPrep(R) (evening-only) (full dose) N=169 90 mL OSPS2 N=171 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Abdominal distension 101 (59.8) 70 (40.9) Anal discomfort 87 (51.5) 89 (52.0) Thirst 80 (47.3) 112 (65.5) Nausea 80 (47.3) 80 (46.8) Abdominal pain 66 (39.1) 55 (32.2) Sleep disorder 59 (34.9) 49 (28.7) Rigors 57 (33.7) 51 (29.8) Hunger 51 (30.2) 121 (70.8) Malaise 45 (26.6) 90 (52.6) Vomiting 12 (7.1) 14 (8.2) Dizziness 11 (6.5) 31 (18.1) Headache 3 (1.8) 9 (5.3) Hypokalemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) Hyperphosphatemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) 1 Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. In addition to the recording of spontaneous adverse events, patients were also specifically asked about the occurrence of the following symptoms: shivering, anal irritations, abdominal bloating or fullness, sleep loss, nausea, vomiting, weakness, hunger sensation, abdominal cramps or pain, thirst sensation, and dizziness. 2 OSPS is Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and anaphylactic reaction have been reported with PEG-based products and may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse events following the administration of PEG-based products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events included upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, and acute pulmonary edema after aspirating PEG-based preparation. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of MoviPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to MoviPrep, or a combination of these factors. Cardiovascular: Tachycardia, palpitations, hypertension, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, peripheral edema. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis (some of which were severe, including shock), rash, urticaria, pruritus, lip, tongue and facial swelling, dyspnea, chest tightness and throat tightness. Fever, chills and dehydration. Nervous system: Syncope, tremor, seizure. Renal: Renal impairment and/or failure.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic : rash, erythema, pruritus CN S : headache: dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic : diplopia There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions (6): Allergic \\342\\200\\224 anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, periorbital and digital edema Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 rash, erythema, pruritus CNS \\342\\200\\224 headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic \\342\\200\\224 diplopia To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. -Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic : rash, erythema, pruritus CNS : headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic : diplopia There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: -Allergic \\342\\200\\224 anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, periorbital and digital edema (6) -Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 rash, erythema, pruritus (6) -CNS \\342\\200\\224 headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety (6) -Ophthalmic \\342\\200\\224 diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100 or electronically at ProductComplaintsPP@hospira.com, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic reactions to thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of M.V.I.-Adult(TM). Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritus CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis, rash, erythema, pruritus, headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety, diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of drug interactions between vitamins and other drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities (7.1): Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin Clinical Interactions : Phenytoin (7.1) Levodopa (7.1) Chloramphenicol (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Drug Levels Folic acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Low serum concentration of phenytoin may result in increased seizure frequency. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of drug interactions between vitamins and other drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities: -Acetazolamide (2.4) -Intravenous chlorothiazide sodium (2.4) -Aminophylline (2.4) -Ampicillin (2.4) -Moderately alkaline solutions (2.4) -Calcium salts such as calcium gluconate (2.4) -Vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite (2.4) -Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) -Bleomycin (7.1) Clinical Interactions: -Phenytoin (7.1) -Levodopa (7.1) -Chloramphenicol (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Drug Levels Folic acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Low serum concentration of phenytoin may result in increased seizure frequency. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these types of interactions: Effect of M.V.I.-Adult on other drugs: - Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) - Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin (7.1) - Levodopa: Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease (7.1) - Phenytoin: Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase the risk of seizure activity (7.1) - Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate (7.1) Effects of other drugs on M.V.I.-Adult: - Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements (7.2) - Phenytoin: May decrease folic acid concentrations (7.2) 7.1 Effect of M.V.I.-Adult on Other Drugs Phenytoin: Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate therapy. Levodopa: Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa (decrease blood level of levodopa) and decrease its efficacy. Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro, thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced. 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on M.V.I.-Adult Hydralazine or Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. Chloramphenicol: In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin: Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral medication administered within 1 hour of the start of administration of MoviPrep may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral medications may not be absorbed when administered while taking MoviPrep (7). 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients with conditions, or who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate. [See WARNINGS (5)] 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within 1 hour of the start of administration of MoviPrep may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed.",$$
"ADVERSE EVENTS You should call your doctor for medical advice about adverse events. To report a serious adverse event, contact Marnel Pharmaceuticals, 206 Luke Dr., Lafayette, LA 70506."$$
"ADVERSE REACTION Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals but generally at levels substantially higher than those contained herein. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in PNV-First. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in SELECT-OB(R)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in SELECT-OB(R) Chewable Caplets. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R) Fe+. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-OB. Allergic reactions have been reported with some forms of Gum Acacia to include respiratory problems and skin lesions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-OB+DHA. Allergic reactions have been reported with some forms of gum acacia to include respiratory problems and skin lesions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-Plus. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-Ultra. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals but generally at levels substantially higher than those contained herein. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in BACMIN. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) FORTE. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) ONE."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. The clinical cause of acute iron overdosage can be variable. Initial symptoms may include: abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, tarry stools, melena, hematemesis, hypotension, tachycardia, metabolic acidosis, hyperglycemia, dehydration, drowsiness, pallor, cyanosis, lassitude, seizures, shock and coma. The oral LD50 of polysaccharide-iron complex was estimated to be greater than 5000 mg. iron/kg in rats. Chronic toxicity studies in rats and dogs administered polysaccharide-iron complex showed that a daily dosage of 250 mg iron/kg for three months had no adverse effects. Warning: Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose seek professional assistance or contact a poison control center immediately."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include gastrointestinal intolerance, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Skin rashes of various types may occur. Such reactions may necessitate temporary or permanent changes in dosage or usage. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritation, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and dark stools. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritations, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Carbonyl iron based products may decrease the absorption of medicines. Talk to your doctor and pharmacist before taking carbonyl products if you take any prescription or over-the-counter medicines."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact GM Pharmaceuticals at 1-888-535-0305."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Call your medical practitioner about side effects. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea, and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, transient skin rash, flushing, epigastric pain, and constipation have been associated with acetylcysteine. Call your medical practitioner about side effects."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, transient skin rash, flushing, epigastric pain, and constipation have been associated with acetylcysteine. Call your medical practitioner about side effects. You may report side effects by calling (888) 886-2061."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea, and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Carbonyl iron based products may decrease the absorption of medicines. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking carbonyl products. You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-985-288-5122."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid, as well as possibly the use of other forms of folates - including reduced folates. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine hydrochloride."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid, as well as possibly the use of other forms of folates - including reduced folates. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine hydrochloride. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with cyanocobalamin."$$
"Adverse Reactions Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report a serious adverse event or to obtain product information, contact (866) 703-3508."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-999-8410 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-985-288-5122"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitizations have been reported following oral administration of folic acid. Consult your physician immediately if adverse side effects occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Average capsule doses in sensitive individuals or excessive dosage may cause nausea, skin rash, vomiting, diarrhea, precordial pain, or flushing of the face and extremities."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Average capsule doses in sensitive individuals or excessive dosage may cause nausea, skin rash, vomiting, diarrhea, precordial pain, or flushing of the face or extremities."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In some cases, allergic hypersensitivity has been reported following administration of folic acid. Mild gastrointestinal disturbances may occur with products containing ferrous fumarate (iron), but usually subside with continuation of therapy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No adverse events have been reported with a causal relationship Thonsilla compositum(R) Oral Vials."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration. Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported after large intravenous doses of thiamine. The risk, however, is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins in the B group. There have been no reports of fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I. Pediatric(R). There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: Dermatologic - rash, erythema, pruritus CNS - headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic -diplopia Allergic - urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing, and angioedema"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Transient mild soreness may occur at the site of intramuscular or subcutaneous injection. Too-rapid intravenous administration of the solution may cause temporary faintness or dizziness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Transient mild soreness may occur at the site of intramuscular or subcutaneous injection. Too rapid intravenous administration of the solution may cause temporary faintness or dizziness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact Basiem, LLC, Madisonville, LA 70477 at 1-844-551-9911."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact Solubiomix, LLC, Madisonville, LA 70477 at 1-844-551-9911."$$
"CAUTION: Exercise caution to ensure that the prescribed dosage of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1000 mg) per day."$$
"Drug and Treatment Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficiency of levodopa in the treatment of parkinsonism. Therefore, BACMIN is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy."$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions Physical Incompatibilities: M.V.I. Pediatric(R) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as Diamox (Acetazolamide), Diuril Intravenous Sodium (Chlorothiazide sodium), Aminophylline or sodium bicarbonate. M.V.I. Pediatric(R) is not physically compatible with ampicillin and it may not be physically compatible with ACHROMYCIN (tetracycline HCl). It has also been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate. Direct addition of M.V.I. Pediatric(R) to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended. Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided. Several vitamins have been reported to decrease the activity of certain antibiotics. Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. Some of the vitamins in M.V.I. Pediatric(R) may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite; if bisulfite solutions are necessary, patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies."$$
"Drug Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficacy of levodopa in the treatment of Parkinsonism. Therefore, STROVITE(R) FORTE is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: C-NATE DHA softgels are not recommended for and should not be given to patients receiving levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatibility of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among individuals who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some individuals taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some individuals taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in individuals with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including I-methylfolate and folinic acid. Viva(R) CT Prenatal Chewable does not contain I-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to individuals receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in individuals receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate** include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-HEME OB + DHA does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced serum folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such a pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 (Methylcobalamin): Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency"$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate include but are not limited to: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folate may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce the effectiveness of first generation anticonvulsants and/or increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible patients. Caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) on folate levels is limited and interactions cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. Levodopa: Levodopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B6 include but are not limited to: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa may be antagonized by vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 may or may not interfere with levodopa even when used concurrently with carbidopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 include but are not limited to: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions - Limited evidence suggests that ascorbic acid may influence the intensity and duration of action of bishydroxycoumarin."$$
"Drug Interactions Limited evidence suggests that ascorbic acid may influence the intensity and duration of action of bishydroxycoumarin."$$
"Drug Interactions: Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium. High dosages of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs: carbamazapine, fosphenytoin, phenyltoin, phenoberbitol, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics. Take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbitol, and valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid (antithyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbitol, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium levels in blood. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine supplements should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa alone, as the actions of levodopa may be antagonized."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Pyridoxine supplements should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa alone, as the actions of levodopa may be antagonized."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS RELNATE DHA softgels are not recommended for and should not be given to patients receiving levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine."$$
"Drugs which may interact with folate include but are not limited to: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folate may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce the effectiveness of first generation anticonvulsants and/or increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible patients. Caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) on folate levels is limited and interactions cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. Levodopa: Levodopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B6 include but are not limited to: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa may be antagonized by vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 may or may not interfere with levodopa even when used concurrently with carbidopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 include but are not limited to: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED), The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of this AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy."$$
"INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of this AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy."$$
"INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with folate include: Anti epileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of this AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramlne: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRls include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. lsotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce Significant impairment In folate status after a 6-month therapy."$$
"Precautions Folic Acid may partially correct the hematological damage due to vitamin B12 deficiency of pernicious anemia, while the associated neurological damage progresses."$$
"Transient mild soreness may occur at the site of intramuscular or subcutaneous injection. Too-rapid intravenous administration of the solution may cause temporary faintness or dizziness."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Warnings: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Precautions: Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants."$$
"WARNING PRESSURE MAY DEVELOP WITHIN THE VIAL UPON STORAGE: Exercise care when withdrawing and/or relieve pressure by first inserting sterile empty syringe into vial thus allowing pressure to equilibrate. When using dispensing vials use aseptic technique. Dispense entire contents in aliquots under a laminar flow hood without delay or within 4 hours after entry or discard remaining contents after first withdrawal. Prepare stoppers with a suitable antiseptic solution. Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever the solution and container permit."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Dyzbac tablets should only be used under the direction and supervision of a licensed medical practitioner. Use with caution in patients that may have a medical condition, are pregnant, lactating, trying to conceive, under the age of 18, or taking medications. Dyzbac Tablets should be avoided in children. Use with caution in patients who have a blood disorder, or are taking blood thinning medications such as aspirin, warfarin, or clopidrogrel. Pregnancy And Lactation Dyzbac is not intended for use in pregnant or lactating patients.."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Mebolex tablets should only be used under the direction and supervision of a licensed medical practitioner. Use with caution in patients that may have a medical condition, are pregnant, lactating, trying to conceive, under the age of 18, or taking medications. Mebolex Tablets should be avoided in children. Use with caution in patients who have a blood disorder, or are taking blood thinning medications such as aspirin, warfarin, or clopidrogrel. Pregnancy And Lactation Mebolex is not intended for use in pregnant or lactating patients.."$$
"Warnings and Precautions: PNV-First should be used with caution in those with known sensitivity or allergy to soy. Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperthyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues. Bone pain, high blood pressure, formation of kidney stones, renal failure and increased risk of heart disease can occur. Iodine should be used with caution in patients with an overactive thyroid. Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease. Folic acid, especially in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency. Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding. Supplemental intake of omega-3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended. Avoid Overdosage."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"Warnings and Precautions WARNINGS: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately. PRECAUTIONS: Folic Acid alone in doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using this product since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia. Ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) has been shown to have potential anti-thrombotic effects, including increased bleedng times. Administration of Folet DHA Omega-3 Fatty Acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Warnings and Precautions None"$$
"WARNING: Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting may be serious. Consult a physician promptly. Do not use more than two days or admisister to children under 3 years of age unless directed by a physician."$$
"Warnings: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Precautions: Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants."$$
"WARNINGS: PRECAUTIONS: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants. Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day."$$
"WARNINGS/PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues. Bone pain, high blood pressure, formation of kidney stones, renal failure, and increased risk of heart disease can occur. Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease. Folic acid, especially in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency. Avoid overdosage. Keep out of the reach of children. Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions, including use of all medications, vitamins and supplements, pregnancy, and breast-feeding."$$
"WARNINGS/PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues. Bone pain, high blood pressure, formation of kidney stones, renal failure, and increased risk of heart disease can occur. Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease. Folic acid, especially in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency. Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding. Supplemental intake of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended. Avoid overdosage. Keep out of the reach of children. Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions, including use of all medications, vitamins and supplements, pregnancy, and breast-feeding. Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use."$$
