"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Cardiac conduction abnormalities: PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Consider ECG monitoring in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. (5.1, 6.2, 7.3, 12.2, 17) - Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.2, 6.2, 17) -Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. (5.3) -When cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF)-containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. (5.4) -When used with tenofovir DF, assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. Coadministration with tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients with CLcr below 70 mL/min or in patients also receiving a nephrotoxic agent. (5.4) - Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. (5.5, 6.2) - Hepatotoxicity: Patients with hepatitis B or C coinfection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. (2.4, 5.6, 8.7) -The concomitant use of EVOTAZ and certain other medications may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. (5.7, 7.3) - Antiretrovirals that are not recommended: EVOTAZ is not recommended for use with atazanavir or cobicistat, with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir, or in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other protease inhibitors and elvitegravir). (5.8) - Hyperbilirubinemia: Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. (5.9, 6.1) -Patients receiving EVOTAZ may develop immune reconstitution syndrome (5.10), new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia (5.11, 6.2), and redistribution/accumulation of body fat (5.12). - Hemophilia: Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. (5.13) 5.1 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir prolongs the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) and Overdosage (10)]. In clinical trials of atazanavir that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 6% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920) and 5% of patients (n=118) treated with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (e.g., marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), consider ECG monitoring in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2).] 5.2 Rash Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving atazanavir. [See Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1).] EVOTAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. Mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions have also been reported in atazanavir clinical trials. These reactions had a median time to onset of 7.3 weeks and median duration of 1.4 weeks and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating EVOTAZ, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ, assess estimated creatinine clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in cobicistat-treated patients with renal impairment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), Drug Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir DF Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Therefore, coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. -When EVOTAZ is used with tenofovir DF, document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment. -Measure serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. -Coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. In the clinical trials over 48 weeks (N=771), six (1.5%) subjects treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and tenofovir DF discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse event, five of which had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. None of the five subjects had renal impairment at baseline (e.g., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min). The laboratory findings in these five subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of cobicistat coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF. Renal replacement therapy was not required in any subject. 5.5 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving atazanavir therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2).] 5.6 Hepatotoxicity Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ and during treatment. [See Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7).] 5.7 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of EVOTAZ, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving EVOTAZ, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of EVOTAZ, respectively. These interactions may lead to: - clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. - clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of EVOTAZ. - loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and possible development of resistance. See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during EVOTAZ therapy; review concomitant medications during EVOTAZ therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant medications [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. When used with concomitant medications, EVOTAZ may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain EVOTAZ interactions [see Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.8 Antiretrovirals that are Not Recommended EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other HIV protease inhibitors or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of EVOTAZ (atazanavir or cobicistat). EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A. See Drug Interactions (7) for additional recommendations on use with other antiretroviral agents. 5.9 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking atazanavir experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of atazanavir. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Alternative antiretroviral therapy to EVOTAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2).] 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including atazanavir, a component of EVOTAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.11 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.13 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Consider ECG monitoring in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. , , , , - Cardiac conduction abnormalities: (5.1 6.2 7.3 12.2 17) Discontinue if severe rash develops. , , - Severe Skin Reactions: (5.2 6.2 17) Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. - (5.3) When cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF)-containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. - (5.4) When used with tenofovir DF, assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. Coadministration with tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients with CLcr below 70 mL/min or in patients also receiving a nephrotoxic agent. - (5.4) have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. , - Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis (5.5 6.2) Patients with hepatitis B or C coinfection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. , , - Hepatotoxicity: (2.4 5.6 8.7) The concomitant use of EVOTAZ and certain other medications may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. ( , - 5.7 7.3) EVOTAZ is not recommended for use with atazanavir or cobicistat, with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir, or in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other protease inhibitors and elvitegravir). - Antiretrovirals that are not recommended: (5.8) Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. , - Hyperbilirubinemia: (5.9 6.1) Patients receiving EVOTAZ may develop immune reconstitution syndrome , new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia , , and redistribution/accumulation of body fat . - (5.10) (5.11 6.2) (5.12) Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. - Hemophilia: (5.13) 5.1 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir prolongs the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities . In clinical trials of atazanavir that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 6% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920) and 5% of patients (n=118) treated with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (e.g., marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), consider ECG monitoring in these patients. [see and ] Adverse Reactions (6.2) Overdosage (10) [See .] Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) 5.2 Severe Skin Reactions Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving atazanavir. EVOTAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. [See and .] Contraindications (4) Adverse Reactions (6.1) Mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions have also been reported in atazanavir clinical trials. These reactions had a median time to onset of 7.3 weeks and median duration of 1.4 weeks and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating EVOTAZ, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ, assess estimated creatinine clearance . Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in cobicistat-treated patients with renal impairment . Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.2) [see , , and ] Adverse Reactions (6.1) Drug Interactions (7.3) Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir DF Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Therefore, coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min . [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.3) When EVOTAZ is used with tenofovir DF, document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment. - Measure serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. - Coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. - In the clinical trials over 48 weeks (N=771), six (1.5%) subjects treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and tenofovir DF discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse event, five of which had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. None of the five subjects had renal impairment at baseline (e.g., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min). The laboratory findings in these five subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of cobicistat coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF. Renal replacement therapy was not required in any subject. 5.5 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving atazanavir therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See , .] Adverse Reactions (6.1 6.2) 5.6 Hepatotoxicity Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ and during treatment. [See and .] Dosage and Administration (2.4) Use in Specific Populations (8.7) 5.7 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of EVOTAZ, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving EVOTAZ, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of EVOTAZ, respectively. These interactions may lead to: - clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. - clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of EVOTAZ. - loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and possible development of resistance. See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see ]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during EVOTAZ therapy; review concomitant medications during EVOTAZ therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant medications [see and ]. Drug Interactions (7) Contraindications (4) Drug Interactions (7) When used with concomitant medications, EVOTAZ may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain EVOTAZ interactions . [see , and ] Drug Interactions (7) Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) 5.8 Antiretrovirals that are Not Recommended EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other HIV protease inhibitors or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of EVOTAZ (atazanavir or cobicistat). EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A. See for additional recommendations on use with other antiretroviral agents. Drug Interactions (7) 5.9 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking atazanavir experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of atazanavir. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Alternative antiretroviral therapy to EVOTAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. [See .] Adverse Reactions (6.2) 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including atazanavir, a component of EVOTAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as infection, cytomegalovirus, pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Mycobacterium avium Pneumocystis jiroveci Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.11 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.13 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -cardiac conduction abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -effects on serum creatinine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -new onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] -nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -hyperbilirubinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] For additional safety information about atazanavir and cobicistat consult the full prescribing information for these individual products. Most common adverse reactions seen with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat (greater than 2%, Grades 2-4) are jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of atazanavir and cobicistat coadministered as single agents has been established from a Phase 2 trial, Study 105, and a Phase 3 trial, Study 114. In the pooled analysis, 771 HIV-1 infected, antiretroviral treatment-naive adults received for at least 48 weeks: -atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=394) or -atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=377). The most common adverse reactions (all Grades) and reported in >10% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group were jaundice (13%), ocular icterus (15%), and nausea (12%); the most common adverse reactions in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group were jaundice (11%), ocular icterus (17%), nausea (11%), and diarrhea (11%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 7% in both the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir groups. Table 2 lists the frequency of adverse reactions (Grades 2-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in pooled Studies 105 and 114. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactionsa (Grades 2-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=394) Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=377) a Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on Grades 2-4 adverse events attributed to study drugs. b Rash events include dermatitis allergic, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus generalized, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, and urticaria. Jaundice 5% 3% Rashb 5% 4% Ocular icterus 3% 1% Nausea 2% 2% Nephrolithiasis: Nephrolithiasis has previously been identified in patients receiving atazanavir [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. In the pooled analysis of Studies 105 and 114 through 48 weeks, 8 subjects (2%) receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat developed nephrolithiasis compared with no subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Median time to onset of nephrolithiasis in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group was 24 weeks. Causality in these cases could not be determined with certainty, but the majority of renal stone events were not serious and no subject discontinued study drug. Less Common Adverse Reactions Selected adverse reactions of at least moderate severity (>= Grade 2) occurring in less than 2% of subjects receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF are listed below. These events have been included because of investigator's assessment of potential causal relationship and were considered serious or have been reported in more than one subject treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat, and reported with greater frequency compared with the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Gastrointestinal Disorders: diarrhea, vomiting, upper abdominal pain General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: fatigue Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders: headache Psychiatric Disorders: depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia Renal and Urinary Disorders: nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in Studies 105 and 114 is presented in Table 3. Table 3: Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Laboratory Parameter Abnormality (n=394) (n=377) a For subjects with serum amylase >1.5 \\303\\227 upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3-4) occurring in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group (N=44) and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group (N=34) was 9% and 6%, respectively. Total Bilirubin (>2.5 \\303\\227 ULN) 65% 56% Creatine Kinase (>=10.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 5% 6% Serum Amylasea (>2.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 4% 2% ALT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% AST (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% GGT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 2% 1% Urine Glucose (Glycosuria >=1000 mg/dL) 3% 1% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Increase in Serum Creatinine: Cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. In Studies 105 and 114, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group after which they stabilized. The mean (\\302\\261 SD) change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by Cockcroft-Gault method after 48 weeks of treatment was \\342\\210\\22213.4 \\302\\261 15.2 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group and \\342\\210\\2229.1 \\302\\261 14.7 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Serum Lipids Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 4. In both groups, mean values for serum lipids remained within the normal range for each laboratory test. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Table 4: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults Receiving Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF or Atazanavir Coadministered with Ritonavir and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baselinea Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baselinea a The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and excludes subjects receiving an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug. Total Cholesterol (fasted) 164 [N=307] +4 [N=307] 165 [N=299] +8 [N=299] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 44 [N=306] +3 [N=306] 43 [N=299] +3 [N=299] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 102 [N=307] +5 [N=307] 103 [N=300] +7 [N=300] Triglycerides (fasted) 128 [N=307] +15 [N=307] 131 [N=299] +29 [N=299] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the full prescribing information for atazanavir for postmarketing information on atazanavir."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: cardiac conduction abnormalities - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] rash - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] effects on serum creatinine - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] new onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis - [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.5) hepatotoxicity - [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.6) hyperbilirubinemia - [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.9) For additional safety information about atazanavir and cobicistat consult the full prescribing information for these individual products. Most common adverse reactions seen with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat (greater than 2%, Grades 2-4) are jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of atazanavir and cobicistat coadministered as single agents has been established from a Phase 2 trial, Study 105, and a Phase 3 trial, Study 114. In the pooled analysis, 771 HIV-1 infected, antiretroviral treatment-naive adults received for at least 48 weeks: atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=394) or - atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=377). - The most common adverse reactions (all Grades) and reported in >10% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group were jaundice (13%), ocular icterus (15%), and nausea (12%); the most common adverse reactions in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group were jaundice (11%), ocular icterus (17%), nausea (11%), and diarrhea (11%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 7% in both the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir groups. Table 2 lists the frequency of adverse reactions (Grades 2-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in pooled Studies 105 and 114. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactions (Grades 2-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) a Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=394) Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=377) Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on Grades 2-4 adverse events attributed to study drugs. Rash events include dermatitis allergic, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus generalized, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, and urticaria. a b Jaundice 5% 3% Rash b 5% 4% Ocular icterus 3% 1% Nausea 2% 2% Nephrolithiasis has previously been identified in patients receiving atazanavir . In the pooled analysis of Studies 105 and 114 through 48 weeks, 8 subjects (2%) receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat developed nephrolithiasis compared with no subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Median time to onset of nephrolithiasis in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group was 24 weeks. Causality in these cases could not be determined with certainty, but the majority of renal stone events were not serious and no subject discontinued study drug. Nephrolithiasis: [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.5) Less Common Adverse Reactions Selected adverse reactions of at least moderate severity (>= Grade 2) occurring in less than 2% of subjects receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF are listed below. These events have been included because of investigator's assessment of potential causal relationship and were considered serious or have been reported in more than one subject treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat, and reported with greater frequency compared with the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. diarrhea, vomiting, upper abdominal pain Gastrointestinal Disorders: fatigue General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: rhabdomyolysis Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: headache Nervous System Disorders: depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia Psychiatric Disorders: nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome Renal and Urinary Disorders: Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in Studies 105 and 114 is presented in Table 3. Table 3: Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Laboratory Parameter Abnormality (n=394) (n=377) For subjects with serum amylase >1.5 \\303\\227 upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3-4) occurring in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group (N=44) and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group (N=34) was 9% and 6%, respectively. a Total Bilirubin (>2.5 \\303\\227 ULN) 65% 56% Creatine Kinase (>=10.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 5% 6% Serum Amylase (>2.0 \\303\\227 ULN) a 4% 2% ALT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% AST (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% GGT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 2% 1% Urine Glucose (Glycosuria >=1000 mg/dL) 3% 1% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function . In Studies 105 and 114, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group after which they stabilized. The mean (\\302\\261 SD) change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by Cockcroft-Gault method after 48 weeks of treatment was \\342\\210\\22213.4 \\302\\261 15.2 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group and \\342\\210\\2229.1 \\302\\261 14.7 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Increase in Serum Creatinine: [see and ] Warnings and Precautions (5.3) Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) Serum Lipids Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 4. In both groups, mean values for serum lipids remained within the normal range for each laboratory test. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Table 4: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults Receiving Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF or Atazanavir Coadministered with Ritonavir and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baseline a Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baseline a The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and excludes subjects receiving an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug. a Total Cholesterol (fasted) 164 [N=307] +4 [N=307] 165 [N=299] +8 [N=299] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 44 [N=306] +3 [N=306] 43 [N=299] +3 [N=299] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 102 [N=307] +5 [N=307] 103 [N=300] +7 [N=300] Triglycerides (fasted) 128 [N=307] +15 [N=307] 131 [N=299] +29 [N=299] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the full prescribing information for atazanavir for postmarketing information on atazanavir."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also . , Contraindications (4) Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) Coadministration of EVOTAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of EVOTAZ. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. , , (4 7 12.3) 7.1 Potential for EVOTAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated . Coadministration of EVOTAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A, UGT1A1 and/or CYP2D6 or drugs that are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic effects and adverse reactions which may require dose adjustments and/or additional monitoring as shown in Table 5. Use of EVOTAZ is not recommended when coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 for clearance with narrow therapeutic indices (e.g., paclitaxel, repaglinide). [see ] Contraindications (4) [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) .] 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect EVOTAZ Atazanavir and cobicistat are CYP3A4 substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir and cobicistat plasma concentrations and reduce the therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ, leading to development of resistance to atazanavir (see Table 5). Cobicistat is also metabolized by CYP2D6 to a minor extent. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat and atazanavir (see Table 5). Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H -receptor antagonists are administered with EVOTAZ. See . 2 [ Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Drug interaction trials were not conducted for EVOTAZ. Drug interaction trials were conducted with cobicistat in combination with desipramine, digoxin, or efavirenz and with cobicistat coadministered with elvitegravir in combination with other drugs including rosuvastatin and rifabutin. Table 5 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with the components of EVOTAZ. These recommendations are based either on observed drug interactions in studies of cobicistat, atazanavir, or atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir or predicted drug interactions based on the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interactions a Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment For magnitude of interactions see . a Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Nucleoside and Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs and NtRTIs) didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules | atazanavir | didanosine Coadministration of atazanavir with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure (presumably due to the increase in gastric pH caused by buffers in the didanosine tablets). It is recommended that EVOTAZ be given with food 2 hours before or 1 hour after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and atazanavir with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, EVOTAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate | atazanavir | tenofovir Patients receiving EVOTAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions . [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.4) HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz | atazanavir | cobicistat \\342\\206\\224 efavirenz Coadministration of EVOTAZ with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine | atazanavir | cobicistat Coadministration of EVOTAZ with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonist maraviroc | maraviroc When coadministering maraviroc and EVOTAZ, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors ritonavir or products containing ritonavir | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ and ritonavir or ritonavir-containing regimens is not recommended due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A . [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5) HCV Antiviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors boceprevir telaprevir simeprevir atazanavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown | simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with boceprevir, telaprevir, or simeprevir is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids (please also see H -receptor antagonists and proton-pump inhibitors below) 2 | atazanavir With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. amiodarone, quinidine lidocaine (systemic), disopyramide, flecainide mexiletine, propafenone Antiarrhythmics: | antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin | digoxin When coadministering EVOTAZ with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): | atazanavir | cobicistat | clarithromycin | erythromycin | telithromycin Consider alternative antibiotics. (e.g., dasatinib, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine) Anticancer Agents: | anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with EVOTAZ. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib full prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulant: apixaban, rivaroxaban | apixaban | rivaroxaban Concomitant use of apixaban or rivaroxaban and EVOTAZ is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate | dabigatran Concomitant use of dabigatran etexilate and EVOTAZ is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups for certain indications. Refer to the dabigatran prescribing information for dosing recommendations for dabigatran etexilate when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the International Normalized Ratio (INR) when coadministered with warfarin. Anticonvulsants: Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A (e.g., oxcarbazepine) | atazanavir | cobicistat Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., clonazepam) | clonazepam Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Other anticonvulsants (e.g., lamotrigine) lamotrigine: effects unknown Monitoring of lamotrigine concentrations is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., paroxetine) SSRIs: effects unknown When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) (e.g., amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline) | TCAs Other Antidepressants (e.g., trazodone) | trazodone ketoconazole, itraconazole Antifungals: | atazanavir | cobicistat | ketoconazole | itraconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration of EVOTAZ with either itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Antigout: colchicine | colchicine The coadministration of EVOTAZ with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is contraindicated . [see ] Contraindications (4) Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with EVOTAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course should be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). rifabutin Antimycobacterials: atazanavir: effect unknown cobicistat: effect unknown | rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (e.g., 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions, including neutropenia and uveitis, is warranted. quetiapine Antipsychotics: | quetiapine Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking EVOTAZ: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. (e.g., metoprolol, carvedilol, timolol) Beta-Blockers: \\342\\206\\224 atazanavir | beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended when beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6 are coadministered with EVOTAZ. (e.g., amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, and verapamil) Calcium channel blockers: | calcium channel blocker Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. ECG monitoring is recommended. dexamethasone and other corticosteroids Corticosteroids (systemic): | atazanavir | cobicistat | corticosteroids Concomitant use with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered. Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. bosentan Endothelin receptor antagonists: | atazanavir | cobicistat | bosentan Initiation of bosentan in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients who have been receiving EVOTAZ for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting EVOTAZ. After at least 10 days following initiation of EVOTAZ, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain bosentan dose. : (e.g., famotidine) H 2 -Receptor antagonists (H RA) 2 | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ with tenofovir DF and an H RA in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended. 2 Administer EVOTAZ either at the same time or at a minimum of 10 hours after a dose of the H RA. The dose of the H RA should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naive patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced patients. 2 2 atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: | HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with EVOTAZ, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety . Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. [see ] Contraindications (4) (e.g., progestin/estrogen) Hormonal contraceptives: progestin and estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of EVOTAZ and oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Alternative nonhormonal forms of contraception should be considered. (e.g., cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus) Immunosuppressants: | immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for these immunosuppressants when coadministered with EVOTAZ. salmeterol Inhaled beta-agonist: | salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended due to an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. budesonide, fluticasone and other inhaled or nasal steroids Inhaled/nasal steroids: | corticosteroids Coadministration with inhaled or nasal corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risks. Consider alternative corticosteroids, particularly for long-term use. For treatment of opioid dependence: Narcotic analgesics: buprenorphine, naloxone, methadone buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking EVOTAZ: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: fentanyl | fentanyl When EVOTAZ is coadministered with fentanyl, careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended. tramadol | tramadol When EVOTAZ is coadministered with tramadol, a decreased dose of tramadol may be needed. (e.g., perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine) Neuroleptics: | neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be needed when coadministered with EVOTAZ. avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors: | PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with EVOTAZ may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): when used for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with EVOTAZ . Sildenafil [see ] Contraindications (4) : The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with EVOTAZ: Tadalafil Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients receiving EVOTAZ for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. o Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking tadalafil: Avoid the use of tadalafil when starting EVOTAZ. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours before starting EVOTAZ. At least one week after starting EVOTAZ, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. o Patients switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain tadalafil dose. o Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: : Reduced dosage to 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Sildenafil : Reduced dosage to 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Tadalafil : Reduced dosage to no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Vardenafil (e.g., omeprazole) Proton-pump inhibitors (PPI): | atazanavir In treatment-naive patients, administer EVOTAZ a minimum of 12 hours after administration of the PPI. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced patients, coadministration of EVOTAZ with PPI is not recommended. buspirone, diazepam, zolpidem, and parenterally administered midazolam Sedatives/hypnotics: | sedatives/hypnotics Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Parenterally administered midazolam: . Concomitant use with oral midazolam and triazolam is contraindicated [see ] Contraindications (4) With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, a dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with the Components of EVOTAZ Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between EVOTAZ and acetaminophen, atenolol, dapsone, fluconazole, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, or azithromycin. [See .] Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3)",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . Coadministration of EVOTAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of EVOTAZ. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. (4, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for EVOTAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Coadministration of EVOTAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A, UGT1A1 and/or CYP2D6 or drugs that are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic effects and adverse reactions which may require dose adjustments and/or additional monitoring as shown in Table 5. Use of EVOTAZ is not recommended when coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 for clearance with narrow therapeutic indices (e.g., paclitaxel, repaglinide). [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) .] 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect EVOTAZ Atazanavir and cobicistat are CYP3A4 substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir and cobicistat plasma concentrations and reduce the therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ, leading to development of resistance to atazanavir (see Table 5). Cobicistat is also metabolized by CYP2D6 to a minor extent. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat and atazanavir (see Table 5). Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H2-receptor antagonists are administered with EVOTAZ. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1) .] 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Drug interaction trials were not conducted for EVOTAZ. Drug interaction trials were conducted with cobicistat in combination with desipramine, digoxin, or efavirenz and with cobicistat coadministered with elvitegravir in combination with other drugs including rosuvastatin and rifabutin. Table 5 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with the components of EVOTAZ. These recommendations are based either on observed drug interactions in studies of cobicistat, atazanavir, or atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir or predicted drug interactions based on the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studiesa or Predicted Interactions Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment a For magnitude of interactions see Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) . HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Nucleoside and Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs and NtRTIs) didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules | atazanavir | didanosine Coadministration of atazanavir with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure (presumably due to the increase in gastric pH caused by buffers in the didanosine tablets). It is recommended that EVOTAZ be given with food 2 hours before or 1 hour after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and atazanavir with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, EVOTAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate | atazanavir | tenofovir Patients receiving EVOTAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz | atazanavir | cobicistat \\342\\206\\224 efavirenz Coadministration of EVOTAZ with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine | atazanavir | cobicistat Coadministration of EVOTAZ with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonist maraviroc | maraviroc When coadministering maraviroc and EVOTAZ, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors ritonavir or products containing ritonavir | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ and ritonavir or ritonavir-containing regimens is not recommended due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. HCV Antiviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors boceprevir telaprevir simeprevir atazanavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown | simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with boceprevir, telaprevir, or simeprevir is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids (please also see H2-receptor antagonists and proton-pump inhibitors below) | atazanavir With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, quinidine lidocaine (systemic), disopyramide, flecainide mexiletine, propafenone | antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin | digoxin When coadministering EVOTAZ with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin | atazanavir | cobicistat | clarithromycin | erythromycin | telithromycin Consider alternative antibiotics. Anticancer Agents: (e.g., dasatinib, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine) | anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with EVOTAZ. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib full prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulant: apixaban, rivaroxaban | apixaban | rivaroxaban Concomitant use of apixaban or rivaroxaban and EVOTAZ is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate | dabigatran Concomitant use of dabigatran etexilate and EVOTAZ is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups for certain indications. Refer to the dabigatran prescribing information for dosing recommendations for dabigatran etexilate when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the International Normalized Ratio (INR) when coadministered with warfarin. Anticonvulsants: Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A (e.g., carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital) phenytoin, phenobarbital | atazanavir | cobicistat phenobarbital and phenytoin: effects unknown Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Monitoring of phenobarbital or phenytoin concentrations is recommended with coadministration. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., clonazepam, carbamazepine) | clonazepam | carbamazepine Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Other anticonvulsants (e.g., lamotrigine) lamotrigine: effects unknown Monitoring of lamotrigine concentrations is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., paroxetine) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) (e.g., amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline) Other Antidepressants (e.g., trazodone) SSRIs: effects unknown | TCAs | trazodone When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Antifungals: ketoconazole, itraconazole | atazanavir | cobicistat | ketoconazole | itraconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration of EVOTAZ with either itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Antigout: colchicine | colchicine The coadministration of EVOTAZ with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with EVOTAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course should be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterials: rifabutin atazanavir: effect unknown cobicistat: effect unknown | rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (e.g., 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions, including neutropenia and uveitis, is warranted. Antipsychotics: quetiapine | quetiapine Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking EVOTAZ: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Beta-Blockers: (e.g., metoprolol, carvedilol, timolol) \\342\\206\\224 atazanavir | beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended when beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6 are coadministered with EVOTAZ. Calcium channel blockers: (e.g., amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, and verapamil) | calcium channel blocker Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. ECG monitoring is recommended. Corticosteroids (systemic): dexamethasone and other corticosteroids | atazanavir | cobicistat | corticosteroids Concomitant use with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered. Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. Endothelin receptor antagonists: bosentan | atazanavir | cobicistat | bosentan Initiation of bosentan in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients who have been receiving EVOTAZ for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting EVOTAZ. After at least 10 days following initiation of EVOTAZ, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain bosentan dose. H2-Receptor antagonists (H2RA): (e.g., famotidine) | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ with tenofovir DF and an H2RA in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended. Administer EVOTAZ either at the same time or at a minimum of 10 hours after a dose of the H2RA. The dose of the H2RA should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naive patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced patients. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin | HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with EVOTAZ, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety [see Contraindications (4)]. Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. Hormonal contraceptives: (e.g., progestin/estrogen) progestin and estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of EVOTAZ and oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Alternative nonhormonal forms of contraception should be considered. Immunosuppressants: (e.g., cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus) | immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for these immunosuppressants when coadministered with EVOTAZ. Inhaled beta-agonist: salmeterol | salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended due to an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Inhaled/nasal steroids: budesonide, fluticasone and other inhaled or nasal steroids | corticosteroids Coadministration with inhaled or nasal corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risks. Consider alternative corticosteroids, particularly for long-term use. Narcotic analgesics: For treatment of opioid dependence: buprenorphine, naloxone, methadone fentanyl tramadol buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown | fentanyl | tramadol Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking EVOTAZ: Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. When EVOTAZ is coadministered with fentanyl, careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended. When EVOTAZ is coadministered with tramadol, a decreased dose of tramadol may be needed. Neuroleptics: (e.g., perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine) | neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be needed when coadministered with EVOTAZ. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors: avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil | PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with EVOTAZ may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with EVOTAZ [see Contraindications (4)]. Tadalafil: The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with EVOTAZ: Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking EVOTAZ: oFor patients receiving EVOTAZ for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking tadalafil: oAvoid the use of tadalafil when starting EVOTAZ. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours before starting EVOTAZ. At least one week after starting EVOTAZ, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Patients switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: oMaintain tadalafil dose. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Sildenafil: Reduced dosage to 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Tadalafil: Reduced dosage to 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Vardenafil: Reduced dosage to no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Proton-pump inhibitors (PPI): (e.g., omeprazole) | atazanavir In treatment-naive patients, administer EVOTAZ a minimum of 12 hours after administration of the PPI. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced patients, coadministration of EVOTAZ with PPI is not recommended. Sedatives/hypnotics: buspirone, diazepam, zolpidem, and parenterally administered midazolam | sedatives/hypnotics Parenterally administered midazolam: Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Concomitant use with oral midazolam and triazolam is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, a dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with the Components of EVOTAZ Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between EVOTAZ and acetaminophen, atenolol, dapsone, fluconazole, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, or azithromycin. [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3).]",$$
