"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Cardiac conduction abnormalities: PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Consider ECG monitoring in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. (5.1, 6.2, 7.3, 12.2, 17) - Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.2, 6.2, 17) -Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. (5.3) -When cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF)-containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. (5.4) -When used with tenofovir DF, assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. Coadministration with tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients with CLcr below 70 mL/min or in patients also receiving a nephrotoxic agent. (5.4) - Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. (5.5, 6.2) - Hepatotoxicity: Patients with hepatitis B or C coinfection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. (2.4, 5.6, 8.7) -The concomitant use of EVOTAZ and certain other medications may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. (5.7, 7.3) - Antiretrovirals that are not recommended: EVOTAZ is not recommended for use with atazanavir or cobicistat, with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir, or in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other protease inhibitors and elvitegravir). (5.8) - Hyperbilirubinemia: Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. (5.9, 6.1) -Patients receiving EVOTAZ may develop immune reconstitution syndrome (5.10), new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia (5.11, 6.2), and redistribution/accumulation of body fat (5.12). - Hemophilia: Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. (5.13) 5.1 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir prolongs the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) and Overdosage (10)]. In clinical trials of atazanavir that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 6% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920) and 5% of patients (n=118) treated with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (e.g., marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), consider ECG monitoring in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2).] 5.2 Rash Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving atazanavir. [See Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1).] EVOTAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. Mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions have also been reported in atazanavir clinical trials. These reactions had a median time to onset of 7.3 weeks and median duration of 1.4 weeks and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating EVOTAZ, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ, assess estimated creatinine clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in cobicistat-treated patients with renal impairment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), Drug Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir DF Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Therefore, coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. -When EVOTAZ is used with tenofovir DF, document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment. -Measure serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. -Coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. In the clinical trials over 48 weeks (N=771), six (1.5%) subjects treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and tenofovir DF discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse event, five of which had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. None of the five subjects had renal impairment at baseline (e.g., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min). The laboratory findings in these five subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of cobicistat coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF. Renal replacement therapy was not required in any subject. 5.5 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving atazanavir therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2).] 5.6 Hepatotoxicity Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ and during treatment. [See Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7).] 5.7 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of EVOTAZ, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving EVOTAZ, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of EVOTAZ, respectively. These interactions may lead to: - clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. - clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of EVOTAZ. - loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and possible development of resistance. See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during EVOTAZ therapy; review concomitant medications during EVOTAZ therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant medications [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. When used with concomitant medications, EVOTAZ may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain EVOTAZ interactions [see Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.8 Antiretrovirals that are Not Recommended EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other HIV protease inhibitors or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of EVOTAZ (atazanavir or cobicistat). EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A. See Drug Interactions (7) for additional recommendations on use with other antiretroviral agents. 5.9 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking atazanavir experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of atazanavir. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Alternative antiretroviral therapy to EVOTAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2).] 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including atazanavir, a component of EVOTAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.11 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.13 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Cardiac conduction abnormalities: PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. ECG monitoring should be considered in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. (5.1, 7.3, 12.2, 17) - Severe Skin Reactions: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.2, 17) - Hyperbilirubinemia: Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. Do not dose reduce. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. (5.3) - Phenylketonuria: REYATAZ oral powder contains phenylalanine which can be harmful to patients with phenylketonuria. (5.4) - Hepatotoxicity: Patients with hepatitis B or C infection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. (2.7, 5.5, 8.8) -The concomitant use of REYATAZ/ritonavir and certain other medications may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. (5.7, 7.3) - Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. (5.6) -Patients receiving REYATAZ may develop new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia (5.8), immune reconstitution syndrome (5.9), and redistribution/accumulation of body fat (5.10). - Hemophilia: Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. (5.11) 5.1 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities REYATAZ has been shown to prolong the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities [see Adverse Reactions (6.4) and Overdosage (10)]. In clinical trials that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 5.9% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920), 5.2% of lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients (n=252), 10.4% of nelfinavir-treated patients (n=48), and 3.0% of efavirenz-treated patients (n=329). In Study AI424-045, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 5% (6/118) of atazanavir/ritonavir-treated patients and 5% (6/116) of lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients who had on-study electrocardiogram measurements. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (eg, marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block). ECG monitoring should be considered in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2).] 5.2 Severe Skin Reactions In controlled clinical trials, rash (all grades, regardless of causality) occurred in approximately 20% of patients treated with REYATAZ. The median time to onset of rash in clinical studies was 7.3 weeks and the median duration of rash was 1.4 weeks. Rashes were generally mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions. Treatment-emergent adverse reactions of moderate or severe rash (occurring at a rate of >=2%) are presented for the individual clinical studies [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Dosing with REYATAZ was often continued without interruption in patients who developed rash. The discontinuation rate for rash in clinical trials was <1%. Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia, and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving REYATAZ. [See Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1).] REYATAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. 5.3 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking REYATAZ experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of REYATAZ. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin >5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Alternative antiretroviral therapy to REYATAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. Dose reduction of atazanavir is not recommended since long-term efficacy of reduced doses has not been established. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1).] 5.4 Patients with Phenylketonuria Phenylalanine can be harmful to patients with phenylketonuria (PKU). REYATAZ oral powder contains phenylalanine (a component of aspartame). Each packet of REYATAZ oral powder contains 35 mg of phenylalanine. REYATAZ capsules do not contain phenylalanine. 5.5 Hepatotoxicity Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases before treatment may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with REYATAZ and during treatment. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8).] 5.6 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving REYATAZ therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2) .] 5.7 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of REYATAZ with ritonavir, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving REYATAZ with ritonavir, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of REYATAZ with ritonavir, respectively. These interactions may lead to: - clinically significant adverse reactions potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. - clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of REYATAZ with ritonavir. - loss of therapeutic effect of REYATAZ with ritonavir and possible development of resistance. See Table 16 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during REYATAZ/ritonavir therapy; review concomitant medications during REYATAZ/ritonavir therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant medications [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.8 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2).] 5.9 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including REYATAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.10 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.11 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.12 Resistance/Cross-Resistance Various degrees of cross-resistance among protease inhibitors have been observed. Resistance to atazanavir may not preclude the subsequent use of other protease inhibitors. [See Microbiology (12.4).]",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Cardiac conduction abnormalities: PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Use with caution in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. (5.2, 6.4, 7.3, 12.2, 17.3) - Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.3, 6.4, 17.4) - Hyperbilirubinemia: Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. Do not dose reduce. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. (5.4, 6.2) - Hepatotoxicity: REYATAZ should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment (5.5). Patients with hepatitis B or C infection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. (2.5, 5.5, 6.3, 6.4, 8.8) - Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. (5.6, 6.4) -Patients receiving REYATAZ may develop new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia (5.7, 6.4), immune reconstitution syndrome (5.8), and redistribution/accumulation of body fat (5.9). - Hemophilia: Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. (5.10) 5.1 Drug Interactions See Table 3 for a listing of drugs that are contraindicated for use with REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) due to potentially life-threatening adverse events, significant drug interactions, or loss of virologic activity. [See Contraindications (4) .] Please refer to Table 13 for established and other potentially significant drug interactions [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. 5.2 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir has been shown to prolong the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities [see Adverse Reactions (6.4) and Overdosage (10) ]. In clinical trials that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 5.9% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920), 5.2% of lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients (n=252), 10.4% of nelfinavir-treated patients (n=48), and 3.0% of efavirenz-treated patients (n=329). In Study AI424-045, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 5% (6/118) of atazanavir/ritonavir-treated patients and 5% (6/116) of lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients who had on-study electrocardiogram measurements. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (eg, marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), atazanavir should be used with caution in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) .] Atazanavir in combination with diltiazem increased diltiazem plasma concentration by 2-fold with an additive effect on the PR interval. When used in combination with atazanavir, a dose reduction of diltiazem by one-half should be considered and ECG monitoring is recommended. In a pharmacokinetic study between atazanavir 400 mg once daily and atenolol 50 mg once daily, no clinically significant additive effect of atazanavir and atenolol on the PR interval was observed. Dose adjustment of atenolol is not required when used in combination with atazanavir. [See Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) .] Pharmacokinetic studies between atazanavir and other drugs that prolong the PR interval including beta blockers [other than atenolol, see Drug Interactions (7) ], verapamil, and digoxin have not been performed. An additive effect of atazanavir and these drugs cannot be excluded; therefore, caution should be exercised when atazanavir is given concurrently with these drugs, especially those that are metabolized by CYP3A (eg, verapamil). 5.3 Rash In controlled clinical trials, rash (all grades, regardless of causality) occurred in approximately 20% of patients treated with REYATAZ. The median time to onset of rash in clinical studies was 7.3 weeks and the median duration of rash was 1.4 weeks. Rashes were generally mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions. Treatment-emergent adverse reactions of moderate or severe rash (occurring at a rate of >=2%) are presented for the individual clinical studies [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Dosing with REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) was often continued without interruption in patients who developed rash. The discontinuation rate for rash in clinical trials was <1%. REYATAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving REYATAZ. [See Contraindications (4) .] 5.4 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking REYATAZ experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of REYATAZ. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin >5 times ULN. Alternative antiretroviral therapy to REYATAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. Dose reduction of atazanavir is not recommended since long-term efficacy of reduced doses has not been established. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2) .] 5.5 Hepatotoxicity Caution should be exercised when administering REYATAZ to patients with hepatic impairment because atazanavir concentrations may be increased. [See Dosage and Administration (2.5) .] Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases before treatment may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with REYATAZ and during treatment. [See Adverse Reactions (6.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8) .] 5.6 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving REYATAZ therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4).] 5.7 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4) .] 5.8 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including REYATAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.9 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.10 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.11 Resistance/Cross-Resistance Various degrees of cross-resistance among protease inhibitors have been observed. Resistance to atazanavir may not preclude the subsequent use of other protease inhibitors. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) .]",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cardiac conduction abnormalities: PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Use with caution in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. (5.2, 6.4, 7.3, 12.2, 17.3) Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.3, 6.4, 17.4) Hyperbilirubinemia: Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. Do not dose reduce. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. (5.4, 6.2) Hepatotoxicity: REYATAZ should be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment (5.5). Patients with hepatitis B or C infection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. (2.5, 5.5, 6.3, 6.4, 8.8) Nephrolithiasis has been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. (5.6, 6.4) Patients receiving REYATAZ may develop new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia (5.7, 6.4), immune reconstitution syndrome (5.8), and redistribution/accumulation of body fat. (5.9) Hemophilia: Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. (5.10) 5.1 Drug Interactions See Table 3 for a listing of drugs that are contraindicated for use with REYATAZ due to potentially life-threatening adverse events, significant drug interactions, or loss of virologic activity. [See Contraindications (4) .] Please refer to Table 13 for established and other potentially significant drug interactions [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. 5.2 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir has been shown to prolong the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities [see Adverse Reactions (6.4) and Overdosage (10) ]. In clinical trials that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 5.9% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920), 5.2% of lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients (n=252), 10.4% of nelfinavir-treated patients (n=48), and 3.0% of efavirenz-treated patients (n=329). In Study AI424-045, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 5% (6/118) of atazanavir/ritonavir-treated patients and 5% (6/116) of lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients who had on-study electrocardiogram measurements. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (eg, marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), atazanavir should be used with caution in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) .] Atazanavir in combination with diltiazem increased diltiazem plasma concentration by 2-fold with an additive effect on the PR interval. When used in combination with atazanavir, a dose reduction of diltiazem by one-half should be considered and ECG monitoring is recommended. In a pharmacokinetic study between atazanavir 400 mg once daily and atenolol 50 mg once daily, no clinically significant additive effect of atazanavir and atenolol on the PR interval was observed. Dose adjustment of atenolol is not required when used in combination with atazanavir. [See Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) .] Pharmacokinetic studies between atazanavir and other drugs that prolong the PR interval including beta blockers [other than atenolol, see Drug Interactions (7) ], verapamil, and digoxin have not been performed. An additive effect of atazanavir and these drugs cannot be excluded; therefore, caution should be exercised when atazanavir is given concurrently with these drugs, especially those that are metabolized by CYP3A (eg, verapamil). 5.3 Rash In controlled clinical trials, rash (all grades, regardless of causality) occurred in approximately 20% of patients treated with REYATAZ. The median time to onset of rash in clinical studies was 7.3 weeks and the median duration of rash was 1.4 weeks. Rashes were generally mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions. Treatment-emergent adverse reactions of moderate or severe rash (occurring at a rate of >=2%) are presented for the individual clinical studies [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Dosing with REYATAZ was often continued without interruption in patients who developed rash. The discontinuation rate for rash in clinical trials was <1%. REYATAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions have been reported in patients receiving REYATAZ. [See Contraindications (4) .] 5.4 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking REYATAZ experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of REYATAZ. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin >5 times ULN. Alternative antiretroviral therapy to REYATAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. Dose reduction of atazanavir is not recommended since long-term efficacy of reduced doses has not been established. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2) .] 5.5 Hepatotoxicity Caution should be exercised when administering REYATAZ to patients with hepatic impairment because atazanavir concentrations may be increased. [See Dosage and Administration (2.5) .] Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases before treatment may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with REYATAZ and during treatment. [See Adverse Reactions (6.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8) .] 5.6 Nephrolithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis were reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving REYATAZ therapy. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4) .] 5.7 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4) .] 5.8 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including REYATAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. 5.9 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.10 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.11 Resistance/Cross-Resistance Various degrees of cross-resistance among protease inhibitors have been observed. Resistance to atazanavir may not preclude the subsequent use of other protease inhibitors. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) .]"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Consider ECG monitoring in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. , , , , - Cardiac conduction abnormalities: (5.1 6.2 7.3 12.2 17) Discontinue if severe rash develops. , , - Severe Skin Reactions: (5.2 6.2 17) Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. - (5.3) When cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF)-containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. - (5.4) When used with tenofovir DF, assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. Coadministration with tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients with CLcr below 70 mL/min or in patients also receiving a nephrotoxic agent. - (5.4) have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. , - Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis (5.5 6.2) Patients with hepatitis B or C coinfection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. , , - Hepatotoxicity: (2.4 5.6 8.7) The concomitant use of EVOTAZ and certain other medications may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. ( , - 5.7 7.3) EVOTAZ is not recommended for use with atazanavir or cobicistat, with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir, or in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other protease inhibitors and elvitegravir). - Antiretrovirals that are not recommended: (5.8) Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. , - Hyperbilirubinemia: (5.9 6.1) Patients receiving EVOTAZ may develop immune reconstitution syndrome , new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia , , and redistribution/accumulation of body fat . - (5.10) (5.11 6.2) (5.12) Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. - Hemophilia: (5.13) 5.1 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir prolongs the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities . In clinical trials of atazanavir that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 6% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920) and 5% of patients (n=118) treated with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (e.g., marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), consider ECG monitoring in these patients. [see and ] Adverse Reactions (6.2) Overdosage (10) [See .] Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) 5.2 Severe Skin Reactions Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving atazanavir. EVOTAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. [See and .] Contraindications (4) Adverse Reactions (6.1) Mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions have also been reported in atazanavir clinical trials. These reactions had a median time to onset of 7.3 weeks and median duration of 1.4 weeks and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating EVOTAZ, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ, assess estimated creatinine clearance . Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in cobicistat-treated patients with renal impairment . Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.2) [see , , and ] Adverse Reactions (6.1) Drug Interactions (7.3) Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir DF Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Therefore, coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min . [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.3) When EVOTAZ is used with tenofovir DF, document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment. - Measure serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. - Coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. - In the clinical trials over 48 weeks (N=771), six (1.5%) subjects treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and tenofovir DF discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse event, five of which had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. None of the five subjects had renal impairment at baseline (e.g., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min). The laboratory findings in these five subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of cobicistat coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF. Renal replacement therapy was not required in any subject. 5.5 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving atazanavir therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See , .] Adverse Reactions (6.1 6.2) 5.6 Hepatotoxicity Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ and during treatment. [See and .] Dosage and Administration (2.4) Use in Specific Populations (8.7) 5.7 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of EVOTAZ, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving EVOTAZ, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of EVOTAZ, respectively. These interactions may lead to: - clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. - clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of EVOTAZ. - loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and possible development of resistance. See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see ]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during EVOTAZ therapy; review concomitant medications during EVOTAZ therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant medications [see and ]. Drug Interactions (7) Contraindications (4) Drug Interactions (7) When used with concomitant medications, EVOTAZ may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain EVOTAZ interactions . [see , and ] Drug Interactions (7) Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) 5.8 Antiretrovirals that are Not Recommended EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other HIV protease inhibitors or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of EVOTAZ (atazanavir or cobicistat). EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A. See for additional recommendations on use with other antiretroviral agents. Drug Interactions (7) 5.9 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking atazanavir experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of atazanavir. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Alternative antiretroviral therapy to EVOTAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. [See .] Adverse Reactions (6.2) 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including atazanavir, a component of EVOTAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as infection, cytomegalovirus, pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Mycobacterium avium Pneumocystis jiroveci Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.11 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.13 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -cardiac conduction abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -effects on serum creatinine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -new onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] -nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -hyperbilirubinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] For additional safety information about atazanavir and cobicistat consult the full prescribing information for these individual products. Most common adverse reactions seen with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat (greater than 2%, Grades 2-4) are jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of atazanavir and cobicistat coadministered as single agents has been established from a Phase 2 trial, Study 105, and a Phase 3 trial, Study 114. In the pooled analysis, 771 HIV-1 infected, antiretroviral treatment-naive adults received for at least 48 weeks: -atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=394) or -atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=377). The most common adverse reactions (all Grades) and reported in >10% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group were jaundice (13%), ocular icterus (15%), and nausea (12%); the most common adverse reactions in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group were jaundice (11%), ocular icterus (17%), nausea (11%), and diarrhea (11%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 7% in both the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir groups. Table 2 lists the frequency of adverse reactions (Grades 2-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in pooled Studies 105 and 114. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactionsa (Grades 2-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=394) Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=377) a Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on Grades 2-4 adverse events attributed to study drugs. b Rash events include dermatitis allergic, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus generalized, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, and urticaria. Jaundice 5% 3% Rashb 5% 4% Ocular icterus 3% 1% Nausea 2% 2% Nephrolithiasis: Nephrolithiasis has previously been identified in patients receiving atazanavir [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. In the pooled analysis of Studies 105 and 114 through 48 weeks, 8 subjects (2%) receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat developed nephrolithiasis compared with no subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Median time to onset of nephrolithiasis in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group was 24 weeks. Causality in these cases could not be determined with certainty, but the majority of renal stone events were not serious and no subject discontinued study drug. Less Common Adverse Reactions Selected adverse reactions of at least moderate severity (>= Grade 2) occurring in less than 2% of subjects receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF are listed below. These events have been included because of investigator's assessment of potential causal relationship and were considered serious or have been reported in more than one subject treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat, and reported with greater frequency compared with the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Gastrointestinal Disorders: diarrhea, vomiting, upper abdominal pain General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: fatigue Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders: headache Psychiatric Disorders: depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia Renal and Urinary Disorders: nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in Studies 105 and 114 is presented in Table 3. Table 3: Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Laboratory Parameter Abnormality (n=394) (n=377) a For subjects with serum amylase >1.5 \\303\\227 upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3-4) occurring in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group (N=44) and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group (N=34) was 9% and 6%, respectively. Total Bilirubin (>2.5 \\303\\227 ULN) 65% 56% Creatine Kinase (>=10.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 5% 6% Serum Amylasea (>2.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 4% 2% ALT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% AST (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% GGT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 2% 1% Urine Glucose (Glycosuria >=1000 mg/dL) 3% 1% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Increase in Serum Creatinine: Cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. In Studies 105 and 114, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group after which they stabilized. The mean (\\302\\261 SD) change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by Cockcroft-Gault method after 48 weeks of treatment was \\342\\210\\22213.4 \\302\\261 15.2 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group and \\342\\210\\2229.1 \\302\\261 14.7 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Serum Lipids Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 4. In both groups, mean values for serum lipids remained within the normal range for each laboratory test. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Table 4: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults Receiving Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF or Atazanavir Coadministered with Ritonavir and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baselinea Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baselinea a The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and excludes subjects receiving an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug. Total Cholesterol (fasted) 164 [N=307] +4 [N=307] 165 [N=299] +8 [N=299] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 44 [N=306] +3 [N=306] 43 [N=299] +3 [N=299] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 102 [N=307] +5 [N=307] 103 [N=300] +7 [N=300] Triglycerides (fasted) 128 [N=307] +15 [N=307] 131 [N=299] +29 [N=299] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the full prescribing information for atazanavir for postmarketing information on atazanavir."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: cardiac conduction abnormalities - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] rash - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] effects on serum creatinine - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] new onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF - [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis - [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.5) hepatotoxicity - [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.6) hyperbilirubinemia - [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.9) For additional safety information about atazanavir and cobicistat consult the full prescribing information for these individual products. Most common adverse reactions seen with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat (greater than 2%, Grades 2-4) are jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of atazanavir and cobicistat coadministered as single agents has been established from a Phase 2 trial, Study 105, and a Phase 3 trial, Study 114. In the pooled analysis, 771 HIV-1 infected, antiretroviral treatment-naive adults received for at least 48 weeks: atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=394) or - atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=377). - The most common adverse reactions (all Grades) and reported in >10% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group were jaundice (13%), ocular icterus (15%), and nausea (12%); the most common adverse reactions in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group were jaundice (11%), ocular icterus (17%), nausea (11%), and diarrhea (11%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 7% in both the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir groups. Table 2 lists the frequency of adverse reactions (Grades 2-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in pooled Studies 105 and 114. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactions (Grades 2-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) a Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=394) Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=377) Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on Grades 2-4 adverse events attributed to study drugs. Rash events include dermatitis allergic, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus generalized, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, and urticaria. a b Jaundice 5% 3% Rash b 5% 4% Ocular icterus 3% 1% Nausea 2% 2% Nephrolithiasis has previously been identified in patients receiving atazanavir . In the pooled analysis of Studies 105 and 114 through 48 weeks, 8 subjects (2%) receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat developed nephrolithiasis compared with no subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Median time to onset of nephrolithiasis in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group was 24 weeks. Causality in these cases could not be determined with certainty, but the majority of renal stone events were not serious and no subject discontinued study drug. Nephrolithiasis: [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.5) Less Common Adverse Reactions Selected adverse reactions of at least moderate severity (>= Grade 2) occurring in less than 2% of subjects receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF are listed below. These events have been included because of investigator's assessment of potential causal relationship and were considered serious or have been reported in more than one subject treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat, and reported with greater frequency compared with the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. diarrhea, vomiting, upper abdominal pain Gastrointestinal Disorders: fatigue General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: rhabdomyolysis Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: headache Nervous System Disorders: depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia Psychiatric Disorders: nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome Renal and Urinary Disorders: Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in Studies 105 and 114 is presented in Table 3. Table 3: Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3-4) Reported in >=2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Laboratory Parameter Abnormality (n=394) (n=377) For subjects with serum amylase >1.5 \\303\\227 upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3-4) occurring in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group (N=44) and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group (N=34) was 9% and 6%, respectively. a Total Bilirubin (>2.5 \\303\\227 ULN) 65% 56% Creatine Kinase (>=10.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 5% 6% Serum Amylase (>2.0 \\303\\227 ULN) a 4% 2% ALT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% AST (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 3% 2% GGT (>5.0 \\303\\227 ULN) 2% 1% Urine Glucose (Glycosuria >=1000 mg/dL) 3% 1% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function . In Studies 105 and 114, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group after which they stabilized. The mean (\\302\\261 SD) change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by Cockcroft-Gault method after 48 weeks of treatment was \\342\\210\\22213.4 \\302\\261 15.2 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group and \\342\\210\\2229.1 \\302\\261 14.7 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Increase in Serum Creatinine: [see and ] Warnings and Precautions (5.3) Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) Serum Lipids Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 4. In both groups, mean values for serum lipids remained within the normal range for each laboratory test. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Table 4: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults Receiving Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF or Atazanavir Coadministered with Ritonavir and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baseline a Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baseline a The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and excludes subjects receiving an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug. a Total Cholesterol (fasted) 164 [N=307] +4 [N=307] 165 [N=299] +8 [N=299] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 44 [N=306] +3 [N=306] 43 [N=299] +3 [N=299] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 102 [N=307] +5 [N=307] 103 [N=300] +7 [N=300] Triglycerides (fasted) 128 [N=307] +15 [N=307] 131 [N=299] +29 [N=299] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the full prescribing information for atazanavir for postmarketing information on atazanavir."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -cardiac conduction abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -hyperbilirubinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (>=2%) are nausea, jaundice/scleral icterus, rash, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, insomnia, peripheral neurologic symptoms, dizziness, myalgia, diarrhea, depression, and fever. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Adverse Reactions in Treatment-Naive Adult Patients The safety profile of REYATAZ in treatment-naive adults is based on 1625 HIV-1 infected patients in clinical trials. 536 patients received REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and 1089 patients received REYATAZ 400 mg or higher (without ritonavir). The most common adverse reactions were nausea, jaundice/scleral icterus, and rash. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity reported in >=2% of treatment-naive patients receiving combination therapy including REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and REYATAZ 400 mg (without ritonavir) are presented in Tables 7 and 8, respectively. Table 7: Selected Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,b Study AI424-138 96 weeksc 96 weeksc REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (once daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (twice daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined (n=441) (n=437) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d As a fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. Digestive System Nausea 4% 8% Jaundice/scleral icterus 5% * Diarrhea 2% 12% Skin and Appendages Rash 3% 2% Table 8: Selected Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,b Studies AI424-034, AI424-007, and AI424-008 Study AI424-034 Studies AI424-007, -008 64 weeksc REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee 64 weeksc efavirenz 600 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee 120 weeksc,d REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + stavudine + lamivudine or didanosine 73 weeksc,d nelfinavir 750 mg TID or 1250 mg BID + stavudine + lamivudine or didanosine (n=404) (n=401) (n=279) (n=191) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on regimens containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d Includes long-term follow-up. e As a fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. Body as a Whole Headache 6% 6% 1% 2% Digestive System Nausea 14% 12% 6% 4% Jaundice/scleral icterus 7% * 7% * Vomiting 4% 7% 3% 3% Abdominal pain 4% 4% 4% 2% Diarrhea 1% 2% 3% 16% Nervous System Insomnia 3% 3% <1% * Dizziness 2% 7% <1% * Peripheral neurologic symptoms <1% 1% 4% 3% Skin and Appendages Rash 7% 10% 5% 1% Adverse Reactions in Treatment-Experienced Adult Patients The safety profile of REYATAZ in treatment-experienced adults is based on 119 HIV-1 infected patients in clinical trials. The most common adverse reactions are jaundice/scleral icterus and myalgia. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity reported in >=2% of treatment-experienced patients receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir are presented in Table 9. Table 9: Selected Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Experienced Patients,b Study AI424-045 48 weeksc REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily + tenofovir + NRTI 48 weeksc lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice dailyd + tenofovir + NRTI (n=119) (n=118) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d As a fixed-dose combination. Body as a Whole Fever 2% * Digestive System Jaundice/scleral icterus 9% * Diarrhea 3% 11% Nausea 3% 2% Nervous System Depression 2% <1% Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 4% * Laboratory Abnormalities in Treatment-Naive Patients The percentages of adult treatment-naive patients treated with combination therapy including REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and REYATAZ 400 mg (without ritonavir) with Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities are presented in Tables 10 and 11, respectively. Table 10: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,a Study AI424-138 a Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c ULN = upper limit of normal. d As a fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. Variable Limitc 96 weeksb 96 weeksb REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (once daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (twice daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined (n=441) (n=437) Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 3% 1% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 3% 2% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 \\303\\227 ULN 44% <1% Lipase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN 2% 2% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 8% 7% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 11% 25% Hematology Low Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 5% 2% Table 11: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,a Studies AI424-034, AI424-007, and AI424-008 Variable Limitd Study AI424-034 Studies AI424-007, -008 64 weeksb 64 weeksb 120 weeksb,c 73 weeksb,c REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee efavirenz 600 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + stavudine + lamivudine or + stavudine + didanosine nelfinavir 750 mg TID or 1250 mg BID + stavudine + lamivudine or + stavudine + didanosine (n=404) (n=401) (n=279) (n=191) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Based on regimen(s) containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c Includes long-term follow-up. d ULN = upper limit of normal. e As a fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 2% 2% 7% 5% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 4% 3% 9% 7% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 \\303\\227 ULN 35% <1% 47% 3% Amylase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN * * 14% 10% Lipase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN <1% 1% 4% 5% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 6% 6% 11% 9% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 6% 24% 19% 48% Triglycerides >=751 mg/dL <1% 3% 4% 2% Hematology Low Hemoglobin <8.0 g/dL 5% 3% <1% 4% Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 7% 9% 3% 7% Change in Lipids from Baseline in Treatment-Naive Patients For Study AI424-138 and Study AI424-034, changes from baseline in LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides are shown in Tables 12 and 13, respectively. Table 12: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-138 REYATAZ/ritonavira,b lopinavir/ritonavirb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 96 Baseline Week 48 Week 96 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL Changed (n=428e) (n=372e) (n=372e) (n=342e) (n=342e) (n=424e) (n=335e) (n=335e) (n=291e) (n=291e) a REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 1% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 1% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 8% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 2% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 96, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 10% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 3% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. c Lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily with the fixed-dose combination 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 or Week 96 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 or Week 96 mean values, respectively. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. LDL-Cholesterolf 92 105 +14% 105 +14% 93 111 +19% 110 +17% HDL-Cholesterolf 37 46 +29% 44 +21% 36 48 +37% 46 +29% Total Cholesterolf 149 169 +13% 169 +13% 150 187 +25% 186 +25% Triglyceridesf 126 145 +15% 140 +13% 129 194 +52% 184 +50% Table 13: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-034 REYATAZa,b efavirenzb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 48 Baseline Week 48 Week 48 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed (n=383e) (n=283e) (n=272e) (n=378e) (n=264e) (n=253e) LDL-Cholesterolf 98 98 +1% 98 114 +18% HDL-Cholesterol 39 43 +13% 38 46 +24% Total Cholesterol 164 168 +2% 162 195 +21% Triglyceridesf 138 124 \\342\\210\\2229% 129 168 +23% a REYATAZ 400 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 0% in the efavirenz treatment arm and <1% in the REYATAZ arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 3% in the efavirenz treatment arm and 1% in the REYATAZ arm. c Efavirenz 600 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 mean values. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. Laboratory Abnormalities in Treatment-Experienced Patients The percentages of adult treatment-experienced patients treated with combination therapy including REYATAZ/ritonavir with Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities are presented in Table 14. Table 14: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Experienced Patients, Study AI424-045a Variable Limitc 48 weeksb 48 weeksb REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily + tenofovir + NRTI lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice dailyd + tenofovir + NRTI (n=119) (n=118) Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 3% 3% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 4% 3% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 \\303\\227 ULN 49% <1% Lipase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN 5% 6% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 8% 8% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 25% 26% Triglycerides >=751 mg/dL 8% 12% Glucose >=251 mg/dL 5% <1% Hematology Low Platelets <50,000 cells/mm3 2% 3% Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 7% 8% a Based on regimen(s) containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c ULN = upper limit of normal. d As a fixed-dose combination. Change in Lipids from Baseline in Treatment-Experienced Patients For Study AI424-045, changes from baseline in LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides are shown in Table 15. The observed magnitude of dyslipidemia was less with REYATAZ/ritonavir than with lopinavir/ritonavir. However, the clinical impact of such findings has not been demonstrated. Table 15: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-045 REYATAZ/ritonavira,b lopinavir/ritonavirb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 48 Baseline Week 48 Week 48 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed (n=111e) (n=75e) (n=74e) (n=108e) (n=76e) (n=73e) LDL-Cholesterolf 108 98 \\342\\210\\22210% 104 103 +1% HDL-Cholesterol 40 39 \\342\\210\\2227% 39 41 +2% Total Cholesterol 188 170 \\342\\210\\2228% 181 187 +6% Triglyceridesf 215 161 \\342\\210\\2224% 196 224 +30% a REYATAZ 300 mg once daily + ritonavir + tenofovir + 1 NRTI. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 4% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 4% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 19% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 8% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. c Lopinavir/ritonavir (400/100 mg) BID + tenofovir + 1 NRTI. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 mean values. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients: REYATAZ Capsules The safety and tolerability of REYATAZ Capsules with and without ritonavir have been established in pediatric patients at least 6 years of age from the open-label, multicenter clinical trial PACTG 1020A. The safety profile of REYATAZ in pediatric patients (6 to less than 18 years of age) taking the capsule formulation was generally similar to that observed in clinical studies of REYATAZ in adults. The most common Grade 2-4 adverse events (>=5%, regardless of causality) reported in pediatric patients were cough (21%), fever (18%), jaundice/scleral icterus (15%), rash (14%), vomiting (12%), diarrhea (9%), headache (8%), peripheral edema (7%), extremity pain (6%), nasal congestion (6%), oropharyngeal pain (6%), wheezing (6%), and rhinorrhea (6%). Asymptomatic second-degree atrioventricular block was reported in <2% of patients. The most common Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurring in pediatric patients taking the capsule formulation were elevation of total bilirubin (>=3.2 mg/dL, 58%), neutropenia (9%), and hypoglycemia (4%). All other Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurred with a frequency of less than 3%. Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients: REYATAZ Oral Powder The data described below reflect exposure to REYATAZ oral powder in 155 subjects weighing at least 5 kg to less than 35 kg, including 134 patients exposed for 48 weeks. These data are from two pooled open-label, multi-center clinical trials in treatment-naive and treatment-experienced pediatric patients (AI424-397 [PRINCE I] and AI424-451 [PRINCE II]). Age ranged from 3 months to 10 years of age. In these studies 51% were female and 49% were male. All patients received ritonavir and 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). The safety profile of REYATAZ in pediatric patients taking REYATAZ oral powder was generally similar to that observed in clinical studies of REYATAZ in pediatric patients taking REYATAZ capsules. The most common Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurring in pediatric patients weighing 5 kg to less than 35 kg taking REYATAZ oral powder were increased amylase (33%), neutropenia (9%), increased SGPT/ALT (9%), elevation of total bilirubin (>=2.6 times ULN, 16%), and increased lipase (8%). All other Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurred with a frequency of less than 3%. Adverse Reactions in Patients Co-Infected with Hepatitis B and/or Hepatitis C Virus In study AI424-138, 60 patients treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg once daily, and 51 patients treated with lopinavir/ritonavir 400 mg/100 mg twice daily, each with fixed dose tenofovir-emtricitabine, were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (6/60) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 8% (4/50) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (6/60) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and none (0/50) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. In study AI424-045, 20 patients treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg once daily, and 18 patients treated with lopinavir/ritonavir 400 mg/100 mg twice daily, were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times ULN developed in 25% (5/20) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 6% (1/18) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (2/20) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 6% (1/18) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. In studies AI424-008 and AI424-034, 74 patients treated with 400 mg of REYATAZ once daily, 58 who received efavirenz, and 12 who received nelfinavir were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times ULN developed in 15% of the REYATAZ-treated patients, 14% of the efavirenz-treated patients, and 17% of the nelfinavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 9% of the REYATAZ-treated patients, 5% of the efavirenz-treated patients, and 17% of the nelfinavir-treated patients. Within REYATAZ and control regimens, no difference in frequency of bilirubin elevations was noted between seropositive and seronegative patients. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3).] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of REYATAZ. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: edema Cardiovascular System: second-degree AV block, third-degree AV block, left bundle branch block, QTc prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Gastrointestinal System: pancreatitis Hepatic System: hepatic function abnormalities Hepatobiliary Disorders: cholelithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ], cholecystitis, cholestasis Metabolic System and Nutrition Disorders: diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Musculoskeletal System: arthralgia Renal System: nephrolithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], interstitial nephritis Skin and Appendages: alopecia, maculopapular rash [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ], pruritus, angioedema",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -cardiac conduction abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -hyperbilirubinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] -nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (>=2%) are nausea, jaundice/scleral icterus, rash, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, insomnia, peripheral neurologic symptoms, dizziness, myalgia, diarrhea, depression, and fever. (6.1, 6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions in Treatment-Naive Patients The safety profile of REYATAZ in treatment-naive adults is based on 1625 HIV-1 infected patients in clinical trials. 536 patients received REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and 1089 patients received REYATAZ 400 mg or higher (without ritonavir). The most common adverse reactions are nausea, jaundice/scleral icterus, and rash. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity reported in >=2% of treatment-naive patients receiving combination therapy including REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and REYATAZ 400 mg (without ritonavir) are presented in Tables 4 and 5, respectively. Table 4: Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,b Study AI424-138 96 weeksc 96 weeksc REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (once daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (twice daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined (n=441) (n=437) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d As a fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. Digestive System Nausea 4% 8% Jaundice/scleral icterus 5% * Diarrhea 2% 12% Skin and Appendages Rash 3% 2% Table 5: Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,b Studies AI424-034, AI424-007, and AI424-008 Study AI424-034 Studies AI424-007, -008 64 weeksc REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee 64 weeksc efavirenz 600 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee 120 weeksc,d REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + stavudine + lamivudine or didanosine 73 weeksc,d nelfinavir 750 mg TID or 1250 mg BID + stavudine + lamivudine or didanosine (n=404) (n=401) (n=279) (n=191) Body as a Whole Headache 6% 6% 1% 2% Digestive System Nausea 14% 12% 6% 4% Jaundice/scleral icterus 7% * 7% * Vomiting 4% 7% 3% 3% Abdominal pain 4% 4% 4% 2% Diarrhea 1% 2% 3% 16% Nervous System Insomnia 3% 3% <1% * Dizziness 2% 7% <1% * Peripheral neurologic symptoms <1% 1% 4% 3% Skin and Appendages Rash 7% 10% 5% 1% * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on regimens containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d Includes long-term follow-up. e As a fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions in Treatment-Experienced Patients The safety profile of REYATAZ in treatment-experienced adults is based on 119 HIV-1 infected patients in clinical trials. The most common adverse reactions are jaundice/scleral icterus and myalgia. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity reported in >=2% of treatment-experienced patients receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir are presented in Table 6. Table 6: Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Experienced Patients,b Study AI424-045 48 weeksc REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily + tenofovir + NRTI 48 weeksc lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice dailyd + tenofovir + NRTI (n=119) (n=118) Body as a Whole Fever 2% * Digestive System Jaundice/scleral icterus 9% * Diarrhea 3% 11% Nausea 3% 2% Nervous System Depression 2% <1% Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 4% * * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d As a fixed-dose combination. Laboratory Abnormalities in Treatment-Naive Patients The percentages of adult treatment-naive patients treated with combination therapy including REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and REYATAZ 400 mg (without ritonavir) with Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities are presented in Tables 7 and 8, respectively. Table 7: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,a Study AI424-138 a Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c ULN = upper limit of normal. d As a fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. Variable Limitc 96 weeksb 96 weeksb REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (once daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (twice daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined (n=441) (n=437) Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 3% 1% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 3% 2% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 \\303\\227 ULN 44% <1% Lipase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN 2% 2% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 8% 7% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 11% 25% Hematology Low Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 5% 2% Table 8: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,a Studies AI424-034, AI424-007, and AI424-008 Variable Limitd Study AI424-034 Studies AI424-007, -008 64 weeksb 64 weeksb 120 weeksb,c 73 weeksb,c REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee efavirenz 600 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + stavudine + lamivudine or + stavudine + didanosine nelfinavir 750 mg TID or 1250 mg BID + stavudine + lamivudine or + stavudine + didanosine (n=404) (n=401) (n=279) (n=191) Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 2% 2% 7% 5% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 4% 3% 9% 7% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 \\303\\227 ULN 35% <1% 47% 3% Amylase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN * * 14% 10% Lipase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN <1% 1% 4% 5% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 6% 6% 11% 9% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 6% 24% 19% 48% Triglycerides >=751 mg/dL <1% 3% 4% 2% Hematology Low Hemoglobin <8.0 g/dL 5% 3% <1% 4% Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 7% 9% 3% 7% * None reported in this treatment arm. a Based on regimen(s) containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c Includes long-term follow-up. d ULN = upper limit of normal. e As a fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. Laboratory Abnormalities in Treatment-Experienced Patients The percentages of adult treatment-experienced patients treated with combination therapy including REYATAZ/ritonavir with Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities are presented in Table 9. Table 9: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Experienced Patients, Study AI424-045a Variable Limitc 48 weeksb 48 weeksb REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily + tenofovir + NRTI lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice dailyd + tenofovir + NRTI (n=119) (n=118) Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 3% 3% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 4% 3% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 \\303\\227 ULN 49% <1% Lipase >=2.1 \\303\\227 ULN 5% 6% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 \\303\\227 ULN 8% 8% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 25% 26% Triglycerides >=751 mg/dL 8% 12% Glucose >=251 mg/dL 5% <1% Hematology Low Platelets <50,000 cells/mm3 2% 3% Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 7% 8% a Based on regimen(s) containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c ULN = upper limit of normal. d As a fixed-dose combination. Lipids, Change from Baseline in Treatment-Naive Patients For Study AI424-138 and Study AI424-034, changes from baseline in LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides are shown in Tables 10 and 11, respectively. Table 10: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-138 REYATAZ/ritonavira,b lopinavir/ritonavirb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 96 Baseline Week 48 Week 96 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL Changed (n=428e) (n=372e) (n=372e) (n=342e) (n=342e) (n=424e) (n=335e) (n=335e) (n=291e) (n=291e) a REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 1% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 1% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 8% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 2% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 96, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 10% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 3% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. c Lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily with the fixed-dose combination 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 or Week 96 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 or Week 96 mean values, respectively. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. LDL-Cholesterolf 92 105 +14% 105 +14% 93 111 +19% 110 +17% HDL-Cholesterolf 37 46 +29% 44 +21% 36 48 +37% 46 +29% Total Cholesterolf 149 169 +13% 169 +13% 150 187 +25% 186 +25% Triglyceridesf 126 145 +15% 140 +13% 129 194 +52% 184 +50% Table 11: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-034 REYATAZa,b efavirenzb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 48 Baseline Week 48 Week 48 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed (n=383e) (n=283e) (n=272e) (n=378e) (n=264e) (n=253e) LDL-Cholesterolf 98 98 +1% 98 114 +18% HDL-Cholesterol 39 43 +13% 38 46 +24% Total Cholesterol 164 168 +2% 162 195 +21% Triglyceridesf 138 124 \\342\\210\\2229% 129 168 +23% a REYATAZ 400 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 0% in the efavirenz treatment arm and <1% in the REYATAZ arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 3% in the efavirenz treatment arm and 1% in the REYATAZ arm. c Efavirenz 600 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 mean values. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. Lipids, Change from Baseline in Treatment-Experienced Patients For Study AI424-045, changes from baseline in LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides are shown in Table 12. The observed magnitude of dyslipidemia was less with REYATAZ/ritonavir than with lopinavir/ritonavir. However, the clinical impact of such findings has not been demonstrated. Table 12: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-045 REYATAZ/ritonavira,b lopinavir/ritonavirb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 48 Baseline Week 48 Week 48 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed (n=111e) (n=75e) (n=74e) (n=108e) (n=76e) (n=73e) LDL-Cholesterolf 108 98 \\342\\210\\22210% 104 103 +1% HDL-Cholesterol 40 39 \\342\\210\\2227% 39 41 +2% Total Cholesterol 188 170 \\342\\210\\2228% 181 187 +6% Triglyceridesf 215 161 \\342\\210\\2224% 196 224 +30% a REYATAZ 300 mg once daily + ritonavir + tenofovir + 1 NRTI. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 4% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 4% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 19% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 8% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. c Lopinavir/ritonavir (400/100 mg) BID + tenofovir + 1 NRTI. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 mean values. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. 6.2 Clinical Trial Experience in Pediatric Patients The safety and tolerability of REYATAZ Capsules with and without ritonavir have been established in pediatric patients at least 6 years of age from the open-label, multicenter clinical trial PACTG 1020A. Use of REYATAZ in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age is under investigation. The safety profile of REYATAZ in pediatric patients (6 to less than 18 years of age) was generally similar to that observed in clinical studies of REYATAZ in adults. The most common Grade 2-4 adverse events (>=5%, regardless of causality) reported in pediatric patients were cough (21%), fever (18%), jaundice/scleral icterus (15%), rash (14%), vomiting (12%), diarrhea (9%), headache (8%), peripheral edema (7%), extremity pain (6%), nasal congestion (6%), oropharyngeal pain (6%), wheezing (6%), and rhinorrhea (6%). Asymptomatic second-degree atrioventricular block was reported in <2% of patients. The most common Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurring in pediatric patients were elevation of total bilirubin (>=3.2 mg/dL, 58%), neutropenia (9%), and hypoglycemia (4%). All other Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurred with a frequency of less than 3%. 6.3 Patients Co-infected With Hepatitis B and/or Hepatitis C Virus Liver function tests should be monitored in patients with a history of hepatitis B or C. In study AI424-138, 60 patients treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg once daily, and 51 patients treated with lopinavir/ritonavir 400 mg/100 mg twice daily, each with fixed dose tenofovir-emtricitabine, were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (6/60) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 8% (4/50) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (6/60) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and none (0/50) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. In study AI424-045, 20 patients treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg once daily, and 18 patients treated with lopinavir/ritonavir 400 mg/100 mg twice daily, were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times ULN developed in 25% (5/20) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 6% (1/18) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (2/20) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 6% (1/18) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. In studies AI424-008 and AI424-034, 74 patients treated with 400 mg of REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) once daily, 58 who received efavirenz, and 12 who received nelfinavir were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) developed in 15% of the REYATAZ-treated patients, 14% of the efavirenz-treated patients, and 17% of the nelfinavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 9% of the REYATAZ-treated patients, 5% of the efavirenz-treated patients, and 17% of the nelfinavir-treated patients. Within atazanavir and control regimens, no difference in frequency of bilirubin elevations was noted between seropositive and seronegative patients. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) .] 6.4 Postmarketing Experience The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of REYATAZ. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: edema Cardiovascular System: second-degree AV block, third-degree AV block, left bundle branch block, QTc prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Gastrointestinal System: pancreatitis Hepatic System: hepatic function abnormalities Hepatobiliary Disorders: cholelithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ], cholecystitis, cholestasis Metabolic System and Nutrition Disorders: diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Musculoskeletal System: arthralgia Renal System: nephrolithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ], interstitial nephritis Skin and Appendages: alopecia, maculopapular rash [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ], pruritus, angioedema",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: cardiac conduction abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] hyperbilirubinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] nephrolithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (>=2%) are nausea, jaundice/scleral icterus, rash, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, insomnia, peripheral neurologic symptoms, dizziness, myalgia, diarrhea, depression, and fever. (6.1, 6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions in Treatment-Naive Patients The safety profile of REYATAZ in treatment-naive adults is based on 1625 HIV-1 infected patients in clinical trials. 536 patients received REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and 1089 patients received REYATAZ 400 mg or higher (without ritonavir). The most common adverse reactions are nausea, jaundice/scleral icterus, and rash. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity reported in >=2% of treatment-naive patients receiving combination therapy including REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and REYATAZ 400 mg (without ritonavir) are presented in Tables 4 and 5, respectively. Table 4: Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,b Study AI424-138 96 weeksc 96 weeksc REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (once daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (twice daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined (n=441) (n=437) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d As a fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. Digestive System Nausea 4% 8% Jaundice/scleral icterus 5% * Diarrhea 2% 12% Skin and Appendages Rash 3% 2% Table 5: Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,b Studies AI424-034, AI424-007, and AI424-008 Study AI424-034 Studies AI424-007, -008 64 weeksc REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee 64 weeksc efavirenz 600 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee 120 weeksc,d REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + stavudine + lamivudine or didanosine 73 weeksc,d nelfinavir 750 mg TID or 1250 mg BID + stavudine + lamivudine or didanosine (n=404) (n=401) (n=279) (n=191) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on regimens containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d Includes long-term follow-up. e As a fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. Body as a Whole Headache 6% 6% 1% 2% Digestive System Nausea 14% 12% 6% 4% Jaundice/scleral icterus 7% * 7% * Vomiting 4% 7% 3% 3% Abdominal pain 4% 4% 4% 2% Diarrhea 1% 2% 3% 16% Nervous System Insomnia 3% 3% <1% * Dizziness 2% 7% <1% * Peripheral neurologic symptoms <1% 1% 4% 3% Skin and Appendages Rash 7% 10% 5% 1% Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions in Treatment-Experienced Patients The safety profile of REYATAZ in treatment-experienced adults is based on 119 HIV-1 infected patients in clinical trials. The most common adverse reactions are jaundice/scleral icterus and myalgia. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity reported in >=2% of treatment-experienced patients receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir are presented in Table 6. Table 6: Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactionsa of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Experienced Patients,b Study AI424-045 48 weeksc REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily + tenofovir + NRTI 48 weeksc lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice dailyd + tenofovir + NRTI (n=119) (n=118) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Includes events of possible, probable, certain, or unknown relationship to treatment regimen. b Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. c Median time on therapy. d As a fixed-dose combination. Body as a Whole Fever 2% * Digestive System Jaundice/scleral icterus 9% * Diarrhea 3% 11% Nausea 3% 2% Nervous System Depression 2% <1% Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 4% * Laboratory Abnormalities in Treatment-Naive Patients The percentages of adult treatment-naive patients treated with combination therapy including REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg and REYATAZ 400 mg (without ritonavir) with Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities are presented in Tables 7 and 8, respectively. Table 7: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,a Study AI424-138 a Based on the regimen containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c ULN = upper limit of normal. d As a fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. Variable Limitc 96 weeksb 96 weeksb REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (once daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (twice daily) and tenofovir with emtricitabined (n=441) (n=437) Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 x ULN 3% 1% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 x ULN 3% 2% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 x ULN 44% <1% Lipase >=2.1 x ULN 2% 2% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 x ULN 8% 7% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 11% 25% Hematology Low Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 5% 2% Table 8: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Naive Patients,a Studies AI424-034, AI424-007, and AI424-008 Variable Limitd Study AI424-034 Studies AI424-007, -008 64 weeksb 64 weeksb 120 weeksb,c 73 weeksb,c REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee efavirenz 600 mg once daily + lamivudine + zidovudinee REYATAZ 400 mg once daily + stavudine + lamivudine or + stavudine + didanosine nelfinavir 750 mg TID or 1250 mg BID + stavudine + lamivudine or + stavudine + didanosine (n=404) (n=401) (n=279) (n=191) * None reported in this treatment arm. a Based on regimen(s) containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c Includes long-term follow-up. d ULN = upper limit of normal. e As a fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 x ULN 2% 2% 7% 5% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 x ULN 4% 3% 9% 7% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 x ULN 35% <1% 47% 3% Amylase >=2.1 x ULN * * 14% 10% Lipase >=2.1 x ULN <1% 1% 4% 5% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 x ULN 6% 6% 11% 9% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 6% 24% 19% 48% Triglycerides >=751 mg/dL <1% 3% 4% 2% Hematology Low Hemoglobin <8.0 g/dL 5% 3% <1% 4% Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 7% 9% 3% 7% Laboratory Abnormalities in Treatment-Experienced Patients The percentages of adult treatment-experienced patients treated with combination therapy including REYATAZ/ritonavir with Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities are presented in Table 9. Table 9: Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in >=2% of Adult Treatment-Experienced Patients, Study AI424-045a Variable Limitc 48 weeksb 48 weeksb REYATAZ/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily + tenofovir + NRTI lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice dailyd + tenofovir + NRTI (n=119) (n=118) a Based on regimen(s) containing REYATAZ. b Median time on therapy. c ULN = upper limit of normal. d As a fixed-dose combination. Chemistry High SGOT/AST >=5.1 x ULN 3% 3% SGPT/ALT >=5.1 x ULN 4% 3% Total Bilirubin >=2.6 x ULN 49% <1% Lipase >=2.1 x ULN 5% 6% Creatine Kinase >=5.1 x ULN 8% 8% Total Cholesterol >=240 mg/dL 25% 26% Triglycerides >=751 mg/dL 8% 12% Glucose >=251 mg/dL 5% <1% Hematology Low Platelets <50,000 cells/mm3 2% 3% Neutrophils <750 cells/mm3 7% 8% Lipids, Change from Baseline in Treatment-Naive Patients For Study AI424-138 and Study AI424-034, changes from baseline in LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides are shown in Tables 10 and 11, respectively. Table 10: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-138 REYATAZ/ritonavira,b lopinavir/ritonavirb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 96 Baseline Week 48 Week 96 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL Changed (n=428e) (n=372e) (n=372e) (n=342e) (n=342e) (n=424e) (n=335e) (n=335e) (n=291e) (n=291e) a REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 1% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 1% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 8% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 2% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 96, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 10% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 3% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. c Lopinavir 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily with the fixed-dose combination 300 mg tenofovir, 200 mg emtricitabine once daily. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 or Week 96 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 or Week 96 mean values, respectively. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. LDL-Cholesterolf 92 105 +14% 105 +14% 93 111 +19% 110 +17% HDL-Cholesterolf 37 46 +29% 44 +21% 36 48 +37% 46 +29% Total Cholesterolf 149 169 +13% 169 +13% 150 187 +25% 186 +25% Triglyceridesf 126 145 +15% 140 +13% 129 194 +52% 184 +50% Table 11: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-034 REYATAZa,b efavirenzb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 48 Baseline Week 48 Week 48 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed (n=383e) (n=283e) (n=272e) (n=378e) (n=264e) (n=253e) a REYATAZ 400 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 0% in the efavirenz treatment arm and <1% in the REYATAZ arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 3% in the efavirenz treatment arm and 1% in the REYATAZ arm. c Efavirenz 600 mg once daily with the fixed-dose combination: 150 mg lamivudine, 300 mg zidovudine twice daily. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 mean values. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. LDL-Cholesterolf 98 98 +1% 98 114 +18% HDL-Cholesterol 39 43 +13% 38 46 +24% Total Cholesterol 164 168 +2% 162 195 +21% Triglyceridesf 138 124 -9% 129 168 +23% Lipids, Change from Baseline in Treatment-Experienced Patients For Study AI424-045, changes from baseline in LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol, and triglycerides are shown in Table 12. The observed magnitude of dyslipidemia was less with REYATAZ/ritonavir than with lopinavir/ritonavir. However, the clinical impact of such findings has not been demonstrated. Table 12: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Study AI424-045 REYATAZ/ritonavira,b lopinavir/ritonavirb,c Baseline Week 48 Week 48 Baseline Week 48 Week 48 mg/dL mg/dL Changed mg/dL mg/dL Changed (n=111e) (n=75e) (n=74e) (n=108e) (n=76e) (n=73e) a REYATAZ 300 mg once daily + ritonavir + tenofovir + 1 NRTI. b Values obtained after initiation of serum lipid-reducing agents were not included in these analyses. At baseline, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 4% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 4% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. Through Week 48, serum lipid-reducing agents were used in 19% in the lopinavir/ritonavir treatment arm and 8% in the REYATAZ/ritonavir arm. c Lopinavir/ritonavir (400/100 mg) BID + tenofovir + 1 NRTI. d The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and is not a simple difference of the baseline and Week 48 mean values. e Number of patients with LDL-cholesterol measured. f Fasting. LDL-Cholesterolf 108 98 -10% 104 103 +1% HDL-Cholesterol 40 39 -7% 39 41 +2% Total Cholesterol 188 170 -8% 181 187 +6% Triglyceridesf 215 161 -4% 196 224 +30% 6.2 Clinical Trial Experience in Pediatric Patients The safety and tolerability of REYATAZ Capsules with and without ritonavir have been established in pediatric patients at least 6 years of age from the open-label, multicenter clinical trial PACTG 1020A. Use of REYATAZ in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age is under investigation. The safety profile of REYATAZ in pediatric patients (6 to less than 18 years of age) was generally similar to that observed in clinical studies of REYATAZ in adults. The most common Grade 2-4 adverse events (>=5%, regardless of causality) reported in pediatric patients were cough (21%), fever (18%), jaundice/scleral icterus (15%), rash (14%), vomiting (12%), diarrhea (9%), headache (8%), peripheral edema (7%), extremity pain (6%), nasal congestion (6%), oropharyngeal pain (6%), wheezing (6%), and rhinorrhea (6%). Asymptomatic second-degree atrioventricular block was reported in <2% of patients. The most common Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurring in pediatric patients were elevation of total bilirubin (>=3.2 mg/dL, 58%), neutropenia (9%), and hypoglycemia (4%). All other Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities occurred with a frequency of less than 3%. 6.3 Patients Co-infected With Hepatitis B and/or Hepatitis C Virus Liver function tests should be monitored in patients with a history of hepatitis B or C. In study AI424-138, 60 patients treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg once daily, and 51 patients treated with lopinavir/ritonavir 400 mg/100 mg twice daily, each with fixed dose tenofovir-emtricitabine, were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (6/60) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 8% (4/50) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (6/60) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and none (0/50) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. In study AI424-045, 20 patients treated with REYATAZ/ritonavir 300 mg/100 mg once daily, and 18 patients treated with lopinavir/ritonavir 400 mg/100 mg twice daily, were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times ULN developed in 25% (5/20) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 6% (1/18) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 10% (2/20) of the REYATAZ/ritonavir-treated patients and 6% (1/18) of the lopinavir/ritonavir-treated patients. In studies AI424-008 and AI424-034, 74 patients treated with 400 mg of REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) once daily, 58 who received efavirenz, and 12 who received nelfinavir were seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C at study entry. ALT levels >5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) developed in 15% of the REYATAZ-treated patients, 14% of the efavirenz-treated patients, and 17% of the nelfinavir-treated patients. AST levels >5 times ULN developed in 9% of the REYATAZ-treated patients, 5% of the efavirenz-treated patients, and 17% of the nelfinavir-treated patients. Within atazanavir and control regimens, no difference in frequency of bilirubin elevations was noted between seropositive and seronegative patients. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) .] 6.4 Postmarketing Experience The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of REYATAZ. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: edema Cardiovascular System: second-degree AV block, third-degree AV block, left bundle branch block, QTc prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Gastrointestinal System: pancreatitis Hepatic System: hepatic function abnormalities Hepatobiliary Disorders: cholelithiasis, cholecystitis, cholestasis Metabolic System and Nutrition Disorders: diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Musculoskeletal System: arthralgia Renal System: nephrolithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Skin and Appendages: alopecia, maculopapular rash [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ], pruritus"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration of REYATAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of atazanavir. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. (4, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for REYATAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1. Coadministration of REYATAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A or UGT1A1 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic and adverse effects. Atazanavir is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Use of REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended when coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 with narrow therapeutic indices (eg, paclitaxel, repaglinide). When REYATAZ with ritonavir is coadministered with substrates of CYP2C8, clinically significant interactions are not expected [see Clinical Pharmacology, Table 22 (12.3) ]. The magnitude of CYP3A-mediated drug interactions on coadministered drug may change when REYATAZ is coadministered with ritonavir. See the complete prescribing information for ritonavir for information on drug interactions with ritonavir. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect REYATAZ Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and reduce REYATAZ's therapeutic effect. Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H2-receptor antagonists are administered with REYATAZ [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3, 2.4 , and 2.5) ]. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 16 provides dosing recommendations in adults as a result of drug interactions with REYATAZ. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction studies or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of efficacy. Table 16: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studiesa or Predicted Interactions (Information in the table applies to REYATAZ with or without ritonavir, unless otherwise indicated) Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration of Atazanavir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment a For magnitude of interactions see Clinical Pharmacology, Tables 21 and 22 (12.3) . b See Contraindications (4) , Table 6 for orally administered midazolam. c In combination with atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir 100 mg once daily. d In combination with atazanavir 400 mg once daily. HIV Antiviral Agents Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs): didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules | atazanavir | didanosine Coadministration of REYATAZ with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure. It is recommended that REYATAZ be given (with food) 2 h before or 1 h after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and REYATAZ with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, REYATAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors: tenofovir disoproxil fumarate | atazanavir | tenofovir Tenofovir may decrease the AUC and Cmin of atazanavir. When coadministered with tenofovir in adults, it is recommended that REYATAZ 300 mg be given with ritonavir 100 mg and tenofovir 300 mg (all as a single daily dose with food). REYATAZ increases tenofovir concentrations. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. Higher tenofovir concentrations could potentiate tenofovir-associated adverse reactions, including renal disorders. Patients receiving REYATAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. For pregnant women taking REYATAZ with ritonavir and tenofovir, see Dosage and Administration (2.5) . Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs): efavirenz | atazanavir Efavirenz decreases atazanavir exposure. In treatment-naive adult patients: If REYATAZ is combined with efavirenz, REYATAZ 400 mg (two 200-mg capsules) should be administered with ritonavir 100 mg simultaneously once daily with food, and efavirenz 600 mg should be administered once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. In treatment-experienced adult patients: Coadministration of REYATAZ with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended due to decreased atazanavir exposure. Protease Inhibitors: saquinavir (soft gelatin capsules) | saquinavir Appropriate dosing recommendations for this combination, with or without ritonavir, with respect to efficacy and safety have not been established. In a clinical study, saquinavir 1200 mg coadministered with REYATAZ 400 mg and tenofovir 300 mg (all given once daily) plus nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors did not provide adequate efficacy [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. ritonavir | atazanavir If REYATAZ is coadministered with ritonavir, it is recommended that REYATAZ 300 mg once daily be given with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food in adults. See the complete prescribing information for ritonavir for information on drug interactions with ritonavir. others | other protease inhibitor Although not studied, the coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir and an additional protease inhibitor would be expected to increase exposure to the other protease inhibitor. Such coadministration is not recommended. HCV Antiviral Agents Protease Inhibitors: boceprevir | atazanavir | ritonavir Concomitant administration of boceprevir and atazanavir/ritonavir resulted in reduced steady-state exposures to atazanavir and ritonavir. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir and boceprevir is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids and buffered medications | atazanavir Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if antacids, including buffered medications, are administered with REYATAZ. REYATAZ should be administered 2 hours before or 1 hour after these medications. Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, bepridil, lidocaine (systemic), quinidine | amiodarone, bepridil, lidocaine (systemic), quinidine Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening adverse events and has not been studied. Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring of these drugs is recommended if they are used concomitantly with REYATAZ. Anticoagulants: warfarin | warfarin Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening bleeding and has not been studied. It is recommended that International Normalized Ratio (INR) be monitored. Antidepressants: tricyclic antidepressants | tricyclic antidepressants Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening adverse events and has not been studied. Concentration monitoring of these drugs is recommended if they are used concomitantly with REYATAZ. trazodone | trazodone Concomitant use of trazodone and REYATAZ with or without ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of trazodone. Nausea, dizziness, hypotension, and syncope have been observed following coadministration of trazodone and ritonavir. If trazodone is used with a CYP3A4 inhibitor such as REYATAZ, the combination should be used with caution and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered. Antiepileptics: carbamazepine | atazanavir | carbamazepine Plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be decreased when carbamazepine is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Coadministration of carbamazepine and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended. Ritonavir may increase plasma levels of carbamazepine. If patients beginning treatment with REYATAZ/ritonavir have been titrated to a stable dose of carbamazepine, a dose reduction for carbamazepine may be necessary. phenytoin, phenobarbital | atazanavir | phenytoin | phenobarbital Plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be decreased when phenytoin or phenobarbital is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Coadministration of phenytoin or phenobarbital and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended. Ritonavir may decrease plasma levels of phenytoin and phenobarbital. When REYATAZ with ritonavir is coadministered with either phenytoin or phenobarbital, a dose adjustment of phenytoin or phenobarbital may be required. lamotrigine | lamotrigine Coadministration of lamotrigine and REYATAZ with ritonavir may decrease lamotrigine plasma concentrations. Dose adjustment of lamotrigine may be required when coadministered with REYATAZ and ritonavir. Coadministration of lamotrigine and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not expected to decrease lamotrigine plasma concentrations. No dose adjustment of lamotrigine is required when coadministered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Antifungals: ketoconazole, itraconazole REYATAZ/ritonavir: | ketoconazole | itraconazole Coadministration of ketoconazole has only been studied with REYATAZ without ritonavir (negligible increase in atazanavir AUC and Cmax). Due to the effect of ritonavir on ketoconazole, high doses of ketoconazole and itraconazole (>200 mg/day) should be used cautiously with REYATAZ/ritonavir. voriconazole REYATAZ/ritonavir in subjects with a functional CYP2C19 allele: | voriconazole | atazanavir REYATAZ/ritonavir in subjects without a functional CYP2C19 allele: | voriconazole | atazanavir The use of voriconazole in patients receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir is not recommended unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Patients should be carefully monitored for voriconazole-associated adverse reactions and loss of either voriconazole or atazanavir efficacy during the coadministration of voriconazole and REYATAZ/ritonavir. Coadministration of voriconazole with REYATAZ (without ritonavir) may affect atazanavir concentrations; however, no data are available. Antigout: colchicine | colchicine The coadministration of REYATAZ with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is not recommended. Recommended adult dosage of colchicine when administered with REYATAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Not to be repeated before 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterials: rifabutin | rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (eg, 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions including neutropenia is warranted. Antipsychotics: quetiapine | quetiapine Initiation of REYATAZ with ritonavir in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking REYATAZ with ritonavir: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Benzodiazepines: parenterally administered midazolamb | midazolam Concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with REYATAZ may increase plasma concentrations of midazolam. Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Coadministration of oral midazolam with REYATAZ is CONTRAINDICATED. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem | diltiazem and desacetyl-diltiazem Caution is warranted. A dose reduction of diltiazem by 50% should be considered. ECG monitoring is recommended. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir with diltiazem has not been studied. felodipine, nifedipine, nicardipine, and verapamil | calcium channel blocker Caution is warranted. Dose titration of the calcium channel blocker should be considered. ECG monitoring is recommended. Endothelin receptor antagonists:bosentan | atazanavir | bosentan Plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be decreased when bosentan is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Coadministration of bosentan and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended. Coadministration of bosentan in adult patients on REYATAZ/ritonavir: For patients who have been receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir in adult patients on bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting REYATAZ/ritonavir. At least 10 days after starting REYATAZ/ritonavir, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin, rosuvastatin | atorvastatin | rosuvastatin Titrate atorvastatin dose carefully and use the lowest necessary dose. Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased when HIV protease inhibitors, including REYATAZ, are used in combination with these drugs. H2-Receptor antagonists | atazanavir Plasma concentrations of atazanavir were substantially decreased when REYATAZ 400 mg once daily in adults was administered simultaneously with famotidine 40 mg twice daily, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. In treatment-naive adult patients: REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food should be administered simultaneously with, and/or at least 10 hours after, a dose of the H2-receptor antagonist (H2RA). An H2RA dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg once daily up to a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily can be used with REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg in treatment-naive patients. OR For patients unable to tolerate ritonavir, REYATAZ 400 mg once daily with food should be administered at least 2 hours before and at least 10 hours after a dose of the H2RA. No single dose of the H2RA should exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg, and the total daily dose should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg. The use of REYATAZ without ritonavir in pregnant women is not recommended. In treatment-experienced adult patients: Whenever an H2RA is given to a patient receiving REYATAZ with ritonavir, the H2RA dose should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg twice daily, and the REYATAZ and ritonavir doses should be administered simultaneously with, and/or at least 10 hours after, the dose of the H2RA. -REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (all as a single dose with food) if taken with an H2RA. -REYATAZ 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (all as a single dose with food) if taken with both tenofovir and an H2RA. -REYATAZ 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (all as a single dose with food) if taken with either tenofovir or an H2RA for pregnant women during the second and third trimester. REYATAZ is not recommended for pregnant women during the second and third trimester taking REYATAZ with both tenofovir and an H2RA. Hormonal contraceptives: ethinyl estradiol and norgestimate or norethindrone | ethinyl estradiol | norgestimatec Use with caution if coadministration of REYATAZ or REYATAZ/ritonavir with oral contraceptives is considered. If an oral contraceptive is administered with REYATAZ plus ritonavir, it is recommended that the oral contraceptive contain at least 35 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. If REYATAZ is administered without ritonavir, the oral contraceptive should contain no more than 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. | ethinyl estradiol | norethindroned Potential safety risks include substantial increases in progesterone exposure. The long-term effects of increases in concentration of the progestational agent are unknown and could increase the risk of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and acne. Coadministration of REYATAZ or REYATAZ/ritonavir with other hormonal contraceptives (eg, contraceptive patch, contraceptive vaginal ring, or injectable contraceptives) or oral contraceptives containing progestogens other than norethindrone or norgestimate, or less than 25 mcg of ethinyl estradiol, has not been studied; therefore, alternative methods of contraception are recommended. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus | immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for these immunosuppressants when coadministered with REYATAZ. Inhaled beta agonist: salmeterol | salmeterol Coadministration of salmeterol with REYATAZ is not recommended. Concomitant use of salmeterol and REYATAZ may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Inhaled/nasal steroid: fluticasone REYATAZ | fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ (without ritonavir) may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate. Use with caution. Consider alternatives to fluticasone propionate, particularly for long-term use. REYATAZ/ritonavir | fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ/ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, have been reported during postmarketing use in patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or intranasally administered fluticasone propionate. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ/ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Macrolide antibiotics: clarithromycin | clarithromycin | 14-OH clarithromycin | atazanavir Increased concentrations of clarithromycin may cause QTc prolongations; therefore, a dose reduction of clarithromycin by 50% should be considered when it is coadministered with REYATAZ. In addition, concentrations of the active metabolite 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced; consider alternative therapy for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir with clarithromycin has not been studied. Opioids: buprenorphine | buprenorphine | norbuprenorphine Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ with or without ritonavir increases the plasma concentration of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine. Coadministration of REYATAZ plus ritonavir with buprenorphine warrants clinical monitoring for sedation and cognitive effects. A dose reduction of buprenorphine may be considered. Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ with ritonavir is not expected to decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations. Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ without ritonavir may decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations. The coadministration of REYATAZ and buprenorphine without ritonavir is not recommended. PDE5 inhibitors: sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil | sildenafil | tadalafil | vardenafil Coadministration with REYATAZ has not been studied but may result in an increase in PDE5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of REVATIO(R) (sildenafil) for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with REYATAZ [see Contraindications (4)]. The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of ADCIRCA(R) (tadalafil) with REYATAZ: Coadministration of ADCIRCA(R) in patients on REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir): -For patients receiving REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) for at least one week, start ADCIRCA(R) at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Coadministration of REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) in patients on ADCIRCA(R): -Avoid the use of ADCIRCA(R) when starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir). Stop ADCIRCA(R) at least 24 hours before starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir). At least one week after starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir), resume ADCIRCA(R) at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Use VIAGRA(R) (sildenafil) with caution at reduced doses of 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. Use CIALIS(R) (tadalafil) with caution at reduced doses of 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. REYATAZ/ritonavir: Use vardenafil with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. REYATAZ: Use vardenafil with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 24 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Proton-pump inhibitors: omeprazole | atazanavir Plasma concentrations of atazanavir were substantially decreased when REYATAZ 400 mg or REYATAZ 300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once daily was administered with omeprazole 40 mg once daily in adults, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. In treatment-naive adult patients: The proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) dose should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg and must be taken approximately 12 hours prior to the REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg dose. In treatment-experienced adult patients: The use of PPIs in treatment-experienced patients receiving REYATAZ is not recommended. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed Interactions with REYATAZ No clinically significant drug interactions were observed when REYATAZ was coadministered with methadone, fluconazole, acetaminophen, atenolol, or the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors lamivudine or zidovudine [see Clinical Pharmacology, Tables 21 and 22 (12.3) ].",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . Coadministration of REYATAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of atazanavir. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. (4, 5.1, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for REYATAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1. Coadministration of REYATAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A or UGT1A1 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic and adverse effects. Atazanavir is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Caution should be used when REYATAZ without ritonavir is coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 with narrow therapeutic indices (eg, paclitaxel, repaglinide). When REYATAZ with ritonavir is coadministered with substrates of CYP2C8, clinically significant interactions are not expected. [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 14 (12.3) .] The magnitude of CYP3A-mediated drug interactions on coadministered drug may change when REYATAZ is coadministered with ritonavir. See the complete prescribing information for NORVIR(R) (ritonavir) for information on drug interactions with ritonavir. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Atazanavir Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and reduce REYATAZ's therapeutic effect. Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H2-receptor antagonists are administered with atazanavir. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 13 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with REYATAZ. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction studies or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of efficacy. Table 13: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studiesa or Predicted Interactions (Information in the table applies to REYATAZ with or without ritonavir, unless otherwise indicated) Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration of Atazanavir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment a For magnitude of interactions see Clinical Pharmacology, Tables 17 and 18 (12.3) . b See Contraindications (4) , Table 3 for orally administered midazolam. c In combination with atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir 100 mg once daily. d In combination with atazanavir 400 mg once daily. HIV Antiviral Agents Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs): didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules | atazanavir | didanosine Coadministration of REYATAZ with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure. It is recommended that REYATAZ be given (with food) 2 h before or 1 h after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and REYATAZ with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, REYATAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors: tenofovir disoproxil fumarate | atazanavir | tenofovir Tenofovir may decrease the AUC and Cmin of atazanavir. When coadministered with tenofovir, it is recommended that REYATAZ 300 mg be given with ritonavir 100 mg and tenofovir 300 mg (all as a single daily dose with food). REYATAZ without ritonavir should not be coadministered with tenofovir. REYATAZ increases tenofovir concentrations. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. Higher tenofovir concentrations could potentiate tenofovir-associated adverse events, including renal disorders. Patients receiving REYATAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse events. For pregnant women taking REYATAZ with ritonavir and tenofovir, see Dosage and Administration (2.3) . Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs): efavirenz | atazanavir Efavirenz decreases atazanavir exposure. In treatment-naive patients: If REYATAZ is combined with efavirenz, REYATAZ 400 mg (two 200-mg capsules) with ritonavir 100 mg should be administered once daily all as a single dose with food, and efavirenz 600 mg should be administered once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. In treatment-experienced patients: Do not coadminister REYATAZ with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients due to decreased atazanavir exposure. nevirapine | atazanavir | nevirapine Do not coadminister REYATAZ with nevirapine because: -Nevirapine substantially decreases atazanavir exposure. -Potential risk for nevirapine associated toxicity due to increased nevirapine exposures. Protease Inhibitors: saquinavir (soft gelatin capsules) | saquinavir Appropriate dosing recommendations for this combination, with or without ritonavir, with respect to efficacy and safety have not been established. In a clinical study, saquinavir 1200 mg coadministered with REYATAZ 400 mg and tenofovir 300 mg (all given once daily) plus nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors did not provide adequate efficacy [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. ritonavir | atazanavir If REYATAZ is coadministered with ritonavir, it is recommended that REYATAZ 300 mg once daily be given with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food. See the complete prescribing information for NORVIR(R) (ritonavir) for information on drug interactions with ritonavir. others | other protease inhibitor REYATAZ/ritonavir: Although not studied, the coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir and other protease inhibitors would be expected to increase exposure to the other protease inhibitor. Such coadministration is not recommended. HCV Antiviral Agents Protease Inhibitors: boceprevir | atazanavir | ritonavir Concomitant administration of boceprevir and atazanavir/ritonavir resulted in reduced steady-state exposures to atazanavir and ritonavir. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir and boceprevir is not recommended. telaprevir | telaprevir | atazanavir Concomitant administration of telaprevir and atazanavir/ritonavir resulted in reduced steady-state telaprevir exposure, while steady-state atazanavir exposure was increased. Other Agents Antacids and buffered medications | atazanavir Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if antacids, including buffered medications, are administered with REYATAZ. REYATAZ should be administered 2 hours before or 1 hour after these medications. Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, bepridil, lidocaine (systemic), quinidine | amiodarone, bepridil, lidocaine (systemic), quinidine Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening adverse events and has not been studied. Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring of these drugs is recommended if they are used concomitantly with REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate). Anticoagulants: warfarin | warfarin Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening bleeding and has not been studied. It is recommended that INR (International Normalized Ratio) be monitored. Antidepressants: tricyclic antidepressants | tricyclic antidepressants Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening adverse events and has not been studied. Concentration monitoring of these drugs is recommended if they are used concomitantly with REYATAZ. trazodone | trazodone Concomitant use of trazodone and REYATAZ with or without ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of trazodone. Adverse events of nausea, dizziness, hypotension, and syncope have been observed following coadministration of trazodone and ritonavir. If trazodone is used with a CYP3A4 inhibitor such as REYATAZ, the combination should be used with caution and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered. Antiepileptics: carbamazepine | atazanavir | carbamazepine Plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be decreased when carbamazepine is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Coadministration of carbamazepine and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended. Ritonavir may increase plasma levels of carbamazepine. If patients beginning treatment with REYATAZ/ritonavir have been titrated to a stable dose of carbamazepine, a dose reduction for carbamazepine may be necessary. phenytoin, phenobarbital | atazanavir | phenytoin | phenobarbital Plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be decreased when phenytoin or phenobarbital is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Coadministration of phenytoin or phenobarbital and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended. Ritonavir may decrease plasma levels of phenytoin and phenobarbital. When REYATAZ with ritonavir is coadministered with either phenytoin or phenobarbital, a dose adjustment of phenytoin or phenobarbital may be required. lamotrigine | lamotrigine Coadministration of lamotrigine and REYATAZ with ritonavir may decrease lamotrigine plasma concentrations. Dose adjustment of lamotrigine may be required when coadministered with REYATAZ and ritonavir. Coadministration of lamotrigine and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not expected to decrease lamotrigine plasma concentrations. No dose adjustment of lamotrigine is required when coadministered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Antifungals: ketoconazole, itraconazole REYATAZ/ritonavir: | ketoconazole | itraconazole Coadministration of ketoconazole has only been studied with REYATAZ without ritonavir (negligible increase in atazanavir AUC and Cmax). Due to the effect of ritonavir on ketoconazole, high doses of ketoconazole and itraconazole (>200 mg/day) should be used cautiously with REYATAZ/ritonavir. voriconazole REYATAZ/ritonavir in subjects with a functional CYP2C19 allele: | voriconazole | atazanavir REYATAZ/ritonavir in subjects without a functional CYP2C19 allele: | voriconazole | atazanavir Voriconazole should not be administered to patients receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Patients should be carefully monitored for voriconazole-associated adverse events and loss of either voriconazole or atazanavir efficacy during the coadministration of voriconazole and REYATAZ/ritonavir. Coadministration of voriconazole with REYATAZ (without ritonavir) may affect atazanavir concentrations; however, no data are available. Antigout: colchicine | colchicine REYATAZ should not be coadministered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with REYATAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Not to be repeated before 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterials: rifabutin | rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (eg, 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions including neutropenia is warranted. Benzodiazepines: parenterally administered midazolamb | midazolam Concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with REYATAZ may increase plasma concentrations of midazolam. Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Coadministration of oral midazolam with REYATAZ is CONTRAINDICATED. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem | diltiazem and desacetyl-diltiazem Caution is warranted. A dose reduction of diltiazem by 50% should be considered. ECG monitoring is recommended. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir with diltiazem has not been studied. felodipine, nifedipine, nicardipine, and verapamil | calcium channel blocker Caution is warranted. Dose titration of the calcium channel blocker should be considered. ECG monitoring is recommended. Endothelin receptor antagonists: bosentan | atazanavir | bosentan Plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be decreased when bosentan is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Coadministration of bosentan and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended. Coadministration of bosentan in patients on REYATAZ/ritonavir: For patients who have been receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir in patients on bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting REYATAZ/ritonavir. At least 10 days after starting REYATAZ/ritonavir, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin, rosuvastatin | atorvastatin | rosuvastatin Titrate atorvastatin dose carefully and use the lowest necessary dose. Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased when HIV protease inhibitors, including REYATAZ, are used in combination with these drugs. H2-Receptor antagonists | atazanavir Plasma concentrations of atazanavir were substantially decreased when REYATAZ 400 mg once daily was administered simultaneously with famotidine 40 mg twice daily, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. In treatment-naive patients: REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food should be administered simultaneously with, and/or at least 10 hours after, a dose of the H2-receptor antagonist. An H2-receptor antagonist dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg once daily up to a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily can be used with REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg in treatment-naive patients. OR For patients unable to tolerate ritonavir, REYATAZ 400 mg once daily with food should be administered at least 2 hours before and at least 10 hours after a dose of the H2-receptor antagonist. No single dose of the H2-receptor antagonist should exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg, and the total daily dose should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg. However, REYATAZ should not be used without ritonavir in pregnant women. In treatment-experienced patients: Whenever an H2-receptor antagonist is given to a patient receiving REYATAZ with ritonavir, the H2-receptor antagonist dose should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg twice daily, and the REYATAZ and ritonavir doses should be administered simultaneously with, and/or at least 10 hours after, the dose of the H2-receptor antagonist. -REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (all as a single dose with food) if taken with an H2-receptor antagonist. For pregnant women taking REYATAZ with ritonavir and an H2-receptor antagonist, see Dosage and Administration (2.3) . -REYATAZ 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (all as a single dose with food) if taken with both tenofovir and an H2-receptor antagonist. For pregnant women taking REYATAZ with ritonavir and both tenofovir and an H2-receptor antagonist, see Dosage and Administration (2.3) . Hormonal contraceptives: ethinyl estradiol and norgestimate or norethindrone | ethinyl estradiol | norgestimatec | ethinyl estradiol | norethindroned Use with caution if coadministration of REYATAZ or REYATAZ/ritonavir with oral contraceptives is considered. If an oral contraceptive is administered with REYATAZ plus ritonavir, it is recommended that the oral contraceptive contain at least 35 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. If REYATAZ is administered without ritonavir, the oral contraceptive should contain no more than 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. Potential safety risks include substantial increases in progesterone exposure. The long-term effects of increases in concentration of the progestational agent are unknown and could increase the risk of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and acne. Coadministration of REYATAZ or REYATAZ/ritonavir with other hormonal contraceptives (eg, contraceptive patch, contraceptive vaginal ring, or injectable contraceptives) or oral contraceptives containing progestogens other than norethindrone or norgestimate, or less than 25 mcg of ethinyl estradiol, has not been studied; therefore, alternative methods of contraception are recommended. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporin, sirolimus, tacrolimus | immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for immunosuppressant agents when coadministered with REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate). Inhaled beta agonist: salmeterol | salmeterol Coadministration of salmeterol with REYATAZ is not recommended. Concomitant use of salmeterol and REYATAZ may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Inhaled/nasal steroid: fluticasone REYATAZ | fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ (without ritonavir) may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate. Use with caution. Consider alternatives to fluticasone propionate, particularly for long-term use. REYATAZ/ritonavir | fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ/ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, have been reported during postmarketing use in patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or intranasally administered fluticasone propionate. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ/ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Macrolide antibiotics: clarithromycin | clarithromycin | 14-OH clarithromycin | atazanavir Increased concentrations of clarithromycin may cause QTc prolongations; therefore, a dose reduction of clarithromycin by 50% should be considered when it is coadministered with REYATAZ. In addition, concentrations of the active metabolite 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced; consider alternative therapy for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir with clarithromycin has not been studied. Opioids: Buprenorphine | buprenorphine | norbuprenorphine Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ with or without ritonavir increases the plasma concentration of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine. Coadministration of REYATAZ plus ritonavir with buprenorphine warrants clinical monitoring for sedation and cognitive effects. A dose reduction of buprenorphine may be considered. Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ with ritonavir is not expected to decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations. Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ without ritonavir may decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations. REYATAZ without ritonavir should not be coadministered with buprenorphine. PDE5 inhibitors: sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil | sildenafil | tadalafil | vardenafil Coadministration with REYATAZ has not been studied but may result in an increase in PDE5 inhibitor-associated adverse events, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of REVATIO(R) (sildenafil) for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with REYATAZ [see Contraindications (4) ]. The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of ADCIRCA(R) (tadalafil) with REYATAZ: Coadministration of ADCIRCA(R) in patients on REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir): -For patients receiving REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) for at least one week, start ADCIRCA(R) at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Coadministration of REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) in patients on ADCIRCA(R): -Avoid the use of ADCIRCA(R) when starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir). Stop ADCIRCA(R) at least 24 hours before starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir). At least one week after starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir), resume ADCIRCA(R) at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Use VIAGRA(R) (sildenafil) with caution at reduced doses of 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. Use CIALIS(R) (tadalafil) with caution at reduced doses of 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. REYATAZ/ritonavir: Use LEVITRA(R) (vardenafil) with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. REYATAZ: Use LEVITRA(R) (vardenafil) with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 24 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. Proton-pump inhibitors: omeprazole | atazanavir Plasma concentrations of atazanavir were substantially decreased when REYATAZ 400 mg or REYATAZ 300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once daily was administered with omeprazole 40 mg once daily, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. In treatment-naive patients: The proton-pump inhibitor dose should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg and must be taken approximately 12 hours prior to the REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg dose. In treatment-experienced patients: Proton-pump inhibitors should not be used in treatment-experienced patients receiving REYATAZ. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with REYATAZ Clinically significant interactions are not expected between atazanavir and substrates of CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2B6, CYP2A6, CYP1A2, or CYP2E1. Clinically significant interactions are not expected between atazanavir when administered with ritonavir and substrates of CYP2C8. See the complete prescribing information for NORVIR(R) for information on other potential drug interactions with ritonavir. Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) and dapsone, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, azithromycin, or erythromycin. REYATAZ does not interact with substrates of CYP2D6 (eg, nortriptyline, desipramine, metoprolol). Additionally, no clinically significant drug interactions were observed when REYATAZ was coadministered with methadone, fluconazole, acetaminophen, or atenolol. [See Clinical Pharmacology, Tables 17 and 18 (12.3) .]",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . Coadministration of REYATAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of atazanavir. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. (4, 5.1, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for REYATAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1. Coadministration of REYATAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A or UGT1A1 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic and adverse effects. Atazanavir is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Caution should be used when REYATAZ without ritonavir is coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 with narrow therapeutic indices (eg, paclitaxel, repaglinide). When REYATAZ with ritonavir is coadministered with substrates of CYP2C8, clinically significant interactions are not expected. [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 14 (12.3) .] The magnitude of CYP3A-mediated drug interactions on coadministered drug may change when REYATAZ is coadministered with ritonavir. See the complete prescribing information for NORVIR(R) (ritonavir) for information on drug interactions with ritonavir. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Atazanavir Atazanavir is a CYP3A4 substrate; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and reduce REYATAZ's therapeutic effect. Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H2-receptor antagonists are administered with atazanavir. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 13 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with REYATAZ. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction studies or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of efficacy. Table 13: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studiesa or Predicted Interactions (Information in the table applies to REYATAZ with or without ritonavir, unless otherwise indicated) Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration of Atazanavir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment a For magnitude of interactions see Clinical Pharmacology, Tables 17 and 18 (12.3) . b See Contraindications (4), Table 3 for orally administered midazolam. c In combination with atazanavir 300 mg and ritonavir 100 mg once daily. d In combination with atazanavir 400 mg once daily. HIV Antiviral Agents Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs): didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules | atazanavir | didanosine Coadministration of REYATAZ with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure. It is recommended that REYATAZ be given (with food) 2 h before or 1 h after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and REYATAZ with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, REYATAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors: tenofovir disoproxil fumarate | atazanavir | tenofovir Tenofovir may decrease the AUC and Cmin of atazanavir. When coadministered with tenofovir, it is recommended that REYATAZ 300 mg be given with ritonavir 100 mg and tenofovir 300 mg (all as a single daily dose with food). REYATAZ without ritonavir should not be coadministered with tenofovir. REYATAZ increases tenofovir concentrations. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. Higher tenofovir concentrations could potentiate tenofovir-associated adverse events, including renal disorders. Patients receiving REYATAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse events. For pregnant women taking REYATAZ with ritonavir and tenofovir, see Dosage and Administration (2.3) . Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs): efavirenz | atazanavir Efavirenz decreases atazanavir exposure. In treatment-naive patients: If REYATAZ is combined with efavirenz, REYATAZ 400 mg (two 200-mg capsules) with ritonavir 100 mg should be administered once daily all as a single dose with food, and efavirenz 600 mg should be administered once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. In treatment-experienced patients: Do not coadminister REYATAZ with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients due to decreased atazanavir exposure. Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors: nevirapine | atazanavir | nevirapine Do not coadminister REYATAZ with nevirapine because: Nevirapine substantially decreases atazanavir exposure. Potential risk for nevirapine associated toxicity due to increased nevirapine exposures. Protease Inhibitors: saquinavir (soft gelatin capsules) | saquinavir Appropriate dosing recommendations for this combination, with or without ritonavir, with respect to efficacy and safety have not been established. In a clinical study, saquinavir 1200 mg coadministered with REYATAZ 400 mg and tenofovir 300 mg (all given once daily) plus nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors did not provide adequate efficacy [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Protease Inhibitors: ritonavir | atazanavir If REYATAZ is coadministered with ritonavir, it is recommended that REYATAZ 300 mg once daily be given with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food. See the complete prescribing information for NORVIR(R) (ritonavir) for information on drug interactions with ritonavir. Protease Inhibitors: others | other protease inhibitor REYATAZ/ritonavir: Although not studied, the coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir and other protease inhibitors would be expected to increase exposure to the other protease inhibitor. Such coadministration is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids and buffered medications | atazanavir Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if antacids, including buffered medications, are administered with REYATAZ. REYATAZ should be administered 2 hours before or 1 hour after these medications. Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, bepridil, lidocaine (systemic), quinidine | amiodarone, bepridil, lidocaine (systemic), quinidine Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening adverse events and has not been studied. Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring of these drugs is recommended if they are used concomitantly with REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate). Anticoagulants: warfarin | warfarin Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening bleeding and has not been studied. It is recommended that INR (International Normalized Ratio) be monitored. Antidepressants: tricyclic antidepressants | tricyclic antidepressants Coadministration with REYATAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life-threatening adverse events and has not been studied. Concentration monitoring of these drugs is recommended if they are used concomitantly with REYATAZ. trazodone | trazodone Concomitant use of trazodone and REYATAZ with or without ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of trazodone. Adverse events of nausea, dizziness, hypotension, and syncope have been observed following coadministration of trazodone and ritonavir. If trazodone is used with a CYP3A4 inhibitor such as REYATAZ, the combination should be used with caution and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered. Antifungals: ketoconazole, itraconazole REYATAZ/ritonavir: | ketoconazole | itraconazole Coadministration of ketoconazole has only been studied with REYATAZ without ritonavir (negligible increase in atazanavir AUC and Cmax). Due to the effect of ritonavir on ketoconazole, high doses of ketoconazole and itraconazole (>200 mg/day) should be used cautiously with REYATAZ/ritonavir. Antifungals: voriconazole Effect is unknown Coadministration of voriconazole with REYATAZ, with or without ritonavir, has not been studied. Administration of voriconazole with ritonavir 100 mg every 12 hours decreased voriconazole steady-state AUC by an average of 39%. Voriconazole should not be administered to patients receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Coadministration of voriconazole with REYATAZ (without ritonavir) may increase atazanavir concentrations; however, no data are available. Antigout: colchicine | colchicine REYATAZ should not be coadministered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with REYATAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Not to be repeated before 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterials: rifabutin | rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (eg, 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions including neutropenia is warranted. Benzodiazepines: parenterally administered midazolamb | midazolam Concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with REYATAZ may increase plasma concentrations of midazolam. Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Coadministration of oral midazolam with REYATAZ is CONTRAINDICATED. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem | diltiazem and desacetyl-diltiazem Caution is warranted. A dose reduction of diltiazem by 50% should be considered. ECG monitoring is recommended. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir with diltiazem has not been studied. eg, felodipine, nifedipine, nicardipine, and verapamil | calcium channel blocker Caution is warranted. Dose titration of the calcium channel blocker should be considered. ECG monitoring is recommended. Endothelin receptor antagonists: bosentan | atazanavir | bosentan Plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be decreased when bosentan is administered with REYATAZ without ritonavir. Coadministration of bosentan and REYATAZ without ritonavir is not recommended. Coadministration of bosentan in patients on REYATAZ/ritonavir: For patients who have been receiving REYATAZ/ritonavir for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir in patients on bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting REYATAZ/ritonavir. At least 10 days after starting REYATAZ/ritonavir, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin, rosuvastatin | atorvastatin | rosuvastatin Use the lowest possible dose of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin with careful monitoring, or consider other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors such as pravastatin or fluvastatin in combination with REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir). The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased when HIV protease inhibitors, including REYATAZ, are used in combination with these drugs. H2-Receptor antagonists | atazanavir Plasma concentrations of atazanavir were substantially decreased when REYATAZ 400 mg once daily was administered simultaneously with famotidine 40 mg twice daily, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. In treatment-naive patients: REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food should be administered simultaneously with, and/or at least 10 hours after, a dose of the H2-receptor antagonist. An H2-receptor antagonist dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg once daily up to a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily can be used with REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg in treatment-naive patients. OR For patients unable to tolerate ritonavir, REYATAZ 400 mg once daily with food should be administered at least 2 hours before and at least 10 hours after a dose of the H2-receptor antagonist. No single dose of the H2-receptor antagonist should exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg, and the total daily dose should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg. However, REYATAZ should not be used without ritonavir in pregnant women. In treatment-experienced patients: Whenever an H2-receptor antagonist is given to a patient receiving REYATAZ with ritonavir, the H2-receptor antagonist dose should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 20 mg twice daily, and the REYATAZ and ritonavir doses should be administered simultaneously with, and/or at least 10 hours after, the dose of the H2-receptor antagonist. REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (all as a single dose with food) if taken with an H2-receptor antagonist. For pregnant women taking REYATAZ with ritonavir and an H2-receptor antagonist, see Dosage and Administration (2.3) . REYATAZ 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily (all as a single dose with food) if taken with both tenofovir and an H2-receptor antagonist. For pregnant women taking REYATAZ with ritonavir and both tenofovir and an H2-receptor antagonist, see Dosage and Administration (2.3) . Hormonal contraceptives: ethinyl estradiol and norgestimate or norethindrone | ethinyl estradiol | norgestimatec | ethinyl estradiol | norethindroned Use with caution if coadministration of REYATAZ or REYATAZ/ritonavir with oral contraceptives is considered. If an oral contraceptive is administered with REYATAZ plus ritonavir, it is recommended that the oral contraceptive contain at least 35 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. If REYATAZ is administered without ritonavir, the oral contraceptive should contain no more than 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. Potential safety risks include substantial increases in progesterone exposure. The long-term effects of increases in concentration of the progestational agent are unknown and could increase the risk of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and acne. Coadministration of REYATAZ or REYATAZ/ritonavir with other hormonal contraceptives (eg, contraceptive patch, contraceptive vaginal ring, or injectable contraceptives) or oral contraceptives containing progestogens other than norethindrone or norgestimate, or less than 25 mcg of ethinyl estradiol, has not been studied; therefore, alternative methods of contraception are recommended. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporin, sirolimus, tacrolimus | immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for immunosuppressant agents when coadministered with REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate). Inhaled beta agonist: salmeterol | salmeterol Coadministration of salmeterol with REYATAZ is not recommended. Concomitant use of salmeterol and REYATAZ may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Inhaled/nasal steroid: fluticasone REYATAZ | fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ (without ritonavir) may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate. Use with caution. Consider alternatives to fluticasone propionate, particularly for long-term use. REYATAZ/ritonavir | fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ/ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression, have been reported during postmarketing use in patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or intranasally administered fluticasone propionate. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and REYATAZ/ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Macrolide antibiotics: clarithromycin | clarithromycin | 14-OH clarithromycin | atazanavir Increased concentrations of clarithromycin may cause QTc prolongations; therefore, a dose reduction of clarithromycin by 50% should be considered when it is coadministered with REYATAZ. In addition, concentrations of the active metabolite 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced; consider alternative therapy for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Coadministration of REYATAZ/ritonavir with clarithromycin has not been studied. Opioids: Buprenorphine | buprenorphine | norbuprenorphine Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ with or without ritonavir increases the plasma concentration of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine. Coadministration of REYATAZ plus ritonavir with buprenorphine warrants clinical monitoring for sedation and cognitive effects. A dose reduction of buprenorphine may be considered. Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ with ritonavir is not expected to decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations. Coadministration of buprenorphine and REYATAZ without ritonavir may decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations. REYATAZ without ritonavir should not be coadministered with buprenorphine. PDE5 inhibitors: sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil | sildenafil | tadalafil | vardenafil Coadministration with REYATAZ has not been studied but may result in an increase in PDE5 inhibitor-associated adverse events, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of REVATIO(R) (sildenafil) for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with REYATAZ [see Contraindications (4) ]. The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of ADCIRCA(R) (tadalafil) with REYATAZ: Coadministration of ADCIRCA(R) in patients on REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir): For patients receiving REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) for at least one week, start ADCIRCA(R) at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Coadministration of REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir) in patients on ADCIRCA(R): Avoid the use of ADCIRCA(R) when starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir). Stop ADCIRCA(R) at least 24 hours before starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir). At least one week after starting REYATAZ (with or without ritonavir), resume ADCIRCA(R) at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Use VIAGRA(R) (sildenafil) with caution at reduced doses of 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. Use CIALIS(R) (tadalafil) with caution at reduced doses of 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. REYATAZ/ritonavir: Use LEVITRA(R) (vardenafil) with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. REYATAZ: Use LEVITRA(R) (vardenafil) with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 24 hours with increased monitoring for adverse events. Proton-pump inhibitors: omeprazole | atazanavir Plasma concentrations of atazanavir were substantially decreased when REYATAZ 400 mg or REYATAZ 300 mg/ritonavir 100 mg once daily was administered with omeprazole 40 mg once daily, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. In treatment-naive patients: The proton-pump inhibitor dose should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg and must be taken approximately 12 hours prior to the REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg dose. In treatment-experienced patients: Proton-pump inhibitors should not be used in treatment-experienced patients receiving REYATAZ. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with REYATAZ Clinically significant interactions are not expected between atazanavir and substrates of CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP2B6, CYP2A6, CYP1A2, or CYP2E1. Clinically significant interactions are not expected between atazanavir when administered with ritonavir and substrates of CYP2C8. See the complete prescribing information for NORVIR(R) for information on other potential drug interactions with ritonavir. Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) and fluvastatin, pravastatin, dapsone, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, azithromycin, or erythromycin. REYATAZ does not interact with substrates of CYP2D6 (eg, nortriptyline, desipramine, metoprolol). Additionally, no clinically significant drug interactions were observed when REYATAZ was coadministered with methadone, fluconazole, acetaminophen, or atenolol. [See Clinical Pharmacology, Tables 17 and 18 (12.3) .]"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also . , Contraindications (4) Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) Coadministration of EVOTAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of EVOTAZ. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. , , (4 7 12.3) 7.1 Potential for EVOTAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated . Coadministration of EVOTAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A, UGT1A1 and/or CYP2D6 or drugs that are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic effects and adverse reactions which may require dose adjustments and/or additional monitoring as shown in Table 5. Use of EVOTAZ is not recommended when coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 for clearance with narrow therapeutic indices (e.g., paclitaxel, repaglinide). [see ] Contraindications (4) [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) .] 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect EVOTAZ Atazanavir and cobicistat are CYP3A4 substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir and cobicistat plasma concentrations and reduce the therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ, leading to development of resistance to atazanavir (see Table 5). Cobicistat is also metabolized by CYP2D6 to a minor extent. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat and atazanavir (see Table 5). Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H -receptor antagonists are administered with EVOTAZ. See . 2 [ Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Drug interaction trials were not conducted for EVOTAZ. Drug interaction trials were conducted with cobicistat in combination with desipramine, digoxin, or efavirenz and with cobicistat coadministered with elvitegravir in combination with other drugs including rosuvastatin and rifabutin. Table 5 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with the components of EVOTAZ. These recommendations are based either on observed drug interactions in studies of cobicistat, atazanavir, or atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir or predicted drug interactions based on the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interactions a Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment For magnitude of interactions see . a Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Nucleoside and Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs and NtRTIs) didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules | atazanavir | didanosine Coadministration of atazanavir with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure (presumably due to the increase in gastric pH caused by buffers in the didanosine tablets). It is recommended that EVOTAZ be given with food 2 hours before or 1 hour after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and atazanavir with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, EVOTAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate | atazanavir | tenofovir Patients receiving EVOTAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions . [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.4) HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz | atazanavir | cobicistat \\342\\206\\224 efavirenz Coadministration of EVOTAZ with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine | atazanavir | cobicistat Coadministration of EVOTAZ with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonist maraviroc | maraviroc When coadministering maraviroc and EVOTAZ, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors ritonavir or products containing ritonavir | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ and ritonavir or ritonavir-containing regimens is not recommended due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A . [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5) HCV Antiviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors boceprevir telaprevir simeprevir atazanavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown | simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with boceprevir, telaprevir, or simeprevir is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids (please also see H -receptor antagonists and proton-pump inhibitors below) 2 | atazanavir With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. amiodarone, quinidine lidocaine (systemic), disopyramide, flecainide mexiletine, propafenone Antiarrhythmics: | antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin | digoxin When coadministering EVOTAZ with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): | atazanavir | cobicistat | clarithromycin | erythromycin | telithromycin Consider alternative antibiotics. (e.g., dasatinib, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine) Anticancer Agents: | anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with EVOTAZ. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib full prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulant: apixaban, rivaroxaban | apixaban | rivaroxaban Concomitant use of apixaban or rivaroxaban and EVOTAZ is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate | dabigatran Concomitant use of dabigatran etexilate and EVOTAZ is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups for certain indications. Refer to the dabigatran prescribing information for dosing recommendations for dabigatran etexilate when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the International Normalized Ratio (INR) when coadministered with warfarin. Anticonvulsants: Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A (e.g., oxcarbazepine) | atazanavir | cobicistat Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., clonazepam) | clonazepam Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Other anticonvulsants (e.g., lamotrigine) lamotrigine: effects unknown Monitoring of lamotrigine concentrations is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., paroxetine) SSRIs: effects unknown When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) (e.g., amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline) | TCAs Other Antidepressants (e.g., trazodone) | trazodone ketoconazole, itraconazole Antifungals: | atazanavir | cobicistat | ketoconazole | itraconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration of EVOTAZ with either itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Antigout: colchicine | colchicine The coadministration of EVOTAZ with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is contraindicated . [see ] Contraindications (4) Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with EVOTAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course should be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). rifabutin Antimycobacterials: atazanavir: effect unknown cobicistat: effect unknown | rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (e.g., 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions, including neutropenia and uveitis, is warranted. quetiapine Antipsychotics: | quetiapine Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking EVOTAZ: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. (e.g., metoprolol, carvedilol, timolol) Beta-Blockers: \\342\\206\\224 atazanavir | beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended when beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6 are coadministered with EVOTAZ. (e.g., amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, and verapamil) Calcium channel blockers: | calcium channel blocker Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. ECG monitoring is recommended. dexamethasone and other corticosteroids Corticosteroids (systemic): | atazanavir | cobicistat | corticosteroids Concomitant use with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered. Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. bosentan Endothelin receptor antagonists: | atazanavir | cobicistat | bosentan Initiation of bosentan in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients who have been receiving EVOTAZ for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting EVOTAZ. After at least 10 days following initiation of EVOTAZ, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain bosentan dose. : (e.g., famotidine) H 2 -Receptor antagonists (H RA) 2 | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ with tenofovir DF and an H RA in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended. 2 Administer EVOTAZ either at the same time or at a minimum of 10 hours after a dose of the H RA. The dose of the H RA should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naive patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced patients. 2 2 atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: | HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with EVOTAZ, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety . Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. [see ] Contraindications (4) (e.g., progestin/estrogen) Hormonal contraceptives: progestin and estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of EVOTAZ and oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Alternative nonhormonal forms of contraception should be considered. (e.g., cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus) Immunosuppressants: | immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for these immunosuppressants when coadministered with EVOTAZ. salmeterol Inhaled beta-agonist: | salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended due to an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. budesonide, fluticasone and other inhaled or nasal steroids Inhaled/nasal steroids: | corticosteroids Coadministration with inhaled or nasal corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risks. Consider alternative corticosteroids, particularly for long-term use. For treatment of opioid dependence: Narcotic analgesics: buprenorphine, naloxone, methadone buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking EVOTAZ: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: fentanyl | fentanyl When EVOTAZ is coadministered with fentanyl, careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended. tramadol | tramadol When EVOTAZ is coadministered with tramadol, a decreased dose of tramadol may be needed. (e.g., perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine) Neuroleptics: | neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be needed when coadministered with EVOTAZ. avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors: | PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with EVOTAZ may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): when used for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with EVOTAZ . Sildenafil [see ] Contraindications (4) : The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with EVOTAZ: Tadalafil Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients receiving EVOTAZ for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. o Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking tadalafil: Avoid the use of tadalafil when starting EVOTAZ. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours before starting EVOTAZ. At least one week after starting EVOTAZ, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. o Patients switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain tadalafil dose. o Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: : Reduced dosage to 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Sildenafil : Reduced dosage to 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Tadalafil : Reduced dosage to no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Vardenafil (e.g., omeprazole) Proton-pump inhibitors (PPI): | atazanavir In treatment-naive patients, administer EVOTAZ a minimum of 12 hours after administration of the PPI. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced patients, coadministration of EVOTAZ with PPI is not recommended. buspirone, diazepam, zolpidem, and parenterally administered midazolam Sedatives/hypnotics: | sedatives/hypnotics Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Parenterally administered midazolam: . Concomitant use with oral midazolam and triazolam is contraindicated [see ] Contraindications (4) With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, a dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with the Components of EVOTAZ Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between EVOTAZ and acetaminophen, atenolol, dapsone, fluconazole, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, or azithromycin. [See .] Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3)",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . Coadministration of EVOTAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of EVOTAZ. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. (4, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for EVOTAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Coadministration of EVOTAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A, UGT1A1 and/or CYP2D6 or drugs that are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic effects and adverse reactions which may require dose adjustments and/or additional monitoring as shown in Table 5. Use of EVOTAZ is not recommended when coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 for clearance with narrow therapeutic indices (e.g., paclitaxel, repaglinide). [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) .] 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect EVOTAZ Atazanavir and cobicistat are CYP3A4 substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir and cobicistat plasma concentrations and reduce the therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ, leading to development of resistance to atazanavir (see Table 5). Cobicistat is also metabolized by CYP2D6 to a minor extent. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat and atazanavir (see Table 5). Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H2-receptor antagonists are administered with EVOTAZ. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1) .] 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Drug interaction trials were not conducted for EVOTAZ. Drug interaction trials were conducted with cobicistat in combination with desipramine, digoxin, or efavirenz and with cobicistat coadministered with elvitegravir in combination with other drugs including rosuvastatin and rifabutin. Table 5 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with the components of EVOTAZ. These recommendations are based either on observed drug interactions in studies of cobicistat, atazanavir, or atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir or predicted drug interactions based on the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studiesa or Predicted Interactions Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment a For magnitude of interactions see Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) . HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Nucleoside and Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs and NtRTIs) didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules | atazanavir | didanosine Coadministration of atazanavir with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure (presumably due to the increase in gastric pH caused by buffers in the didanosine tablets). It is recommended that EVOTAZ be given with food 2 hours before or 1 hour after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and atazanavir with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, EVOTAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate | atazanavir | tenofovir Patients receiving EVOTAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz | atazanavir | cobicistat \\342\\206\\224 efavirenz Coadministration of EVOTAZ with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine | atazanavir | cobicistat Coadministration of EVOTAZ with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonist maraviroc | maraviroc When coadministering maraviroc and EVOTAZ, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors ritonavir or products containing ritonavir | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ and ritonavir or ritonavir-containing regimens is not recommended due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. HCV Antiviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors boceprevir telaprevir simeprevir atazanavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown | simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with boceprevir, telaprevir, or simeprevir is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids (please also see H2-receptor antagonists and proton-pump inhibitors below) | atazanavir With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, quinidine lidocaine (systemic), disopyramide, flecainide mexiletine, propafenone | antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin | digoxin When coadministering EVOTAZ with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin | atazanavir | cobicistat | clarithromycin | erythromycin | telithromycin Consider alternative antibiotics. Anticancer Agents: (e.g., dasatinib, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine) | anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with EVOTAZ. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib full prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulant: apixaban, rivaroxaban | apixaban | rivaroxaban Concomitant use of apixaban or rivaroxaban and EVOTAZ is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate | dabigatran Concomitant use of dabigatran etexilate and EVOTAZ is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups for certain indications. Refer to the dabigatran prescribing information for dosing recommendations for dabigatran etexilate when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the International Normalized Ratio (INR) when coadministered with warfarin. Anticonvulsants: Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A (e.g., carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital) phenytoin, phenobarbital | atazanavir | cobicistat phenobarbital and phenytoin: effects unknown Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Monitoring of phenobarbital or phenytoin concentrations is recommended with coadministration. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., clonazepam, carbamazepine) | clonazepam | carbamazepine Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Other anticonvulsants (e.g., lamotrigine) lamotrigine: effects unknown Monitoring of lamotrigine concentrations is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., paroxetine) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) (e.g., amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline) Other Antidepressants (e.g., trazodone) SSRIs: effects unknown | TCAs | trazodone When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Antifungals: ketoconazole, itraconazole | atazanavir | cobicistat | ketoconazole | itraconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration of EVOTAZ with either itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Antigout: colchicine | colchicine The coadministration of EVOTAZ with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with EVOTAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course should be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterials: rifabutin atazanavir: effect unknown cobicistat: effect unknown | rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (e.g., 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions, including neutropenia and uveitis, is warranted. Antipsychotics: quetiapine | quetiapine Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking EVOTAZ: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Beta-Blockers: (e.g., metoprolol, carvedilol, timolol) \\342\\206\\224 atazanavir | beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended when beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6 are coadministered with EVOTAZ. Calcium channel blockers: (e.g., amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, and verapamil) | calcium channel blocker Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. ECG monitoring is recommended. Corticosteroids (systemic): dexamethasone and other corticosteroids | atazanavir | cobicistat | corticosteroids Concomitant use with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered. Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. Endothelin receptor antagonists: bosentan | atazanavir | cobicistat | bosentan Initiation of bosentan in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients who have been receiving EVOTAZ for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting EVOTAZ. After at least 10 days following initiation of EVOTAZ, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain bosentan dose. H2-Receptor antagonists (H2RA): (e.g., famotidine) | atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ with tenofovir DF and an H2RA in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended. Administer EVOTAZ either at the same time or at a minimum of 10 hours after a dose of the H2RA. The dose of the H2RA should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naive patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced patients. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin | HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with EVOTAZ, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety [see Contraindications (4)]. Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. Hormonal contraceptives: (e.g., progestin/estrogen) progestin and estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of EVOTAZ and oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Alternative nonhormonal forms of contraception should be considered. Immunosuppressants: (e.g., cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus) | immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for these immunosuppressants when coadministered with EVOTAZ. Inhaled beta-agonist: salmeterol | salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended due to an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Inhaled/nasal steroids: budesonide, fluticasone and other inhaled or nasal steroids | corticosteroids Coadministration with inhaled or nasal corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risks. Consider alternative corticosteroids, particularly for long-term use. Narcotic analgesics: For treatment of opioid dependence: buprenorphine, naloxone, methadone fentanyl tramadol buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown | fentanyl | tramadol Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking EVOTAZ: Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. When EVOTAZ is coadministered with fentanyl, careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended. When EVOTAZ is coadministered with tramadol, a decreased dose of tramadol may be needed. Neuroleptics: (e.g., perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine) | neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be needed when coadministered with EVOTAZ. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors: avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil | PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with EVOTAZ may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with EVOTAZ [see Contraindications (4)]. Tadalafil: The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with EVOTAZ: Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking EVOTAZ: oFor patients receiving EVOTAZ for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking tadalafil: oAvoid the use of tadalafil when starting EVOTAZ. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours before starting EVOTAZ. At least one week after starting EVOTAZ, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Patients switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: oMaintain tadalafil dose. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Sildenafil: Reduced dosage to 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Tadalafil: Reduced dosage to 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Vardenafil: Reduced dosage to no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Proton-pump inhibitors (PPI): (e.g., omeprazole) | atazanavir In treatment-naive patients, administer EVOTAZ a minimum of 12 hours after administration of the PPI. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced patients, coadministration of EVOTAZ with PPI is not recommended. Sedatives/hypnotics: buspirone, diazepam, zolpidem, and parenterally administered midazolam | sedatives/hypnotics Parenterally administered midazolam: Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Concomitant use with oral midazolam and triazolam is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, a dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with the Components of EVOTAZ Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between EVOTAZ and acetaminophen, atenolol, dapsone, fluconazole, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, or azithromycin. [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3).]",$$
