
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (I0P) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used (See WARNINGS). Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient should be re-evaluated (see PRECAUTIONS)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS ). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intra-ocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used (See WARNINGS ). Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient should be re-evaluated (see PRECAUTIONS )."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS ). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used (See WARNINGS ). Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient should be re-evaluated (see PRECAUTIONS )."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS ). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary ocular infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used (see WARNINGS ). Local irritation on installation has been reported. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient should be re-evaluated (see PRECAUTIONS )."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary ocular infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used (see WARNINGS). Local irritation on installation has been reported. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient should be re-evaluated (see PRECAUTIONS). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC at (414) 434-6604, Monday-Friday 9am-5pm EST or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary ocular infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of a corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used (see WARNINGS). Local irritation on installation has been reported. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient should be re-evaluated (see PRECAUTIONS). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS ). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of Bacitracin Zinc and Polymyxin B Sulfate Ophthalmic Ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC at (414) 434-6604, Monday-Friday 9am-5pm EST, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfate and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment, USP. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfate and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment USP. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and bacitracin zinc ophthalmic ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and bacitracin zinc ophthalmic ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and bacitracin zinc ophthalmic ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC at (414) 434-6604, Monday-Friday 9am-5pm EST or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and bacitracin zinc ophthalmic ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with the anti-infective components of Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Bacitracin Zinc Ophthalmic Ointment. The exact incidence is not known. Reactions occurring most often are allergic sensitization reactions including itching, swelling, and conjunctival erythema (see WARNINGS). More serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported rarely. Local irritation on instillation has also been reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Putney, Inc. at 1-866-683-0660 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Bacitracin has such a low incidence of allergenicity that for all practical purposes side reactions are practically non-existent. However, if such reaction should occur, therapy should be discontinued."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacitracin has such a low incidence of allergenicity that for all practical purposes side reactions are practically non-existent. However, if such reaction should occur, therapy should be discontinued. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC at (414) 434-6604, Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm EST, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Bacitracin has such a low incidence of allergenicity that for all practical purposes side reactions are practically non-existent. However, if such reaction should occur, therapy should be discontinued. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC at (414) 434-6604, Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm EST, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Bacitracin has such a low incidence of allergenicity that for all practical purposes side reactions are practically non-existent. However, if such reaction should occur, therapy should be discontinued. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neomycin occasionally causes skin sensitization. Ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have also been reported. (See WARNINGS.) Adverse reactions have occurred with topical use of antibiotic combinations including neomycin, bacitracin, and polymyxin B. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. The reaction occurring most often is allergic sensitization. In one clinical study, using a 20% neomycin patch, neomycin-induced allergic skin reactions occurred in two of 2,175 (0.09%) individuals in the general population.1 In another study, the incidence was found to be approximately 1%.2 The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, especially under occlusive dressings: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. When steroid preparations are used for long periods of time in intertriginous areas or over extensive body areas, with or without occlusive non-permeable dressings, striae may occur; also there exists the possibility of systemic side effects when steroid preparations are used over large areas or for a long period of time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nephrotoxic reactions\\342\\200\\224Albuminuria, cylindruria, azotemia. Rising blood levels without any increase in dosage. Other reactions\\342\\200\\224Nausea and vomiting. Pain at site of injection. Skin rashes."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nephrotoxic reactions Albuminuria, cylindruria, azotemia. Rising blood levels without any increase in dosage. Other reactions Nausea and vomiting. Pain at sight of injection. Skin rashes.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nephrotoxic reactions. Albuminuria, cylindruria, azotemia. Rising blood levels without any increase in dosage. Other reactions. Nausea and vomiting. Pain at site of injection. Skin rashes."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nephrotoxic reactions. Albuminuria, cylindruria, azotemia. Rising blood levels without any increase in dosage. Other reactions. Nausea and vomiting. Pain at site of injection. Skin rashes. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE DRUG EVENTS, contact Xellia Pharmaceuticals at safety@xellia.com or 1-855-642-2594, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nephrotoxic reactions. Albuminuria, cylindruria, azotemia. Rising blood levels without any increase in dosage. Other reactions. Nausea and vomiting. Pain at site of injection. Skin rashes. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients"$$
"WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS See \\\\"Warning Box\\\\"; for precautions in regard to kidney toxicity associated with intramuscular use of bacitracin. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Adequate fluid intake should be maintained orally, or if necessary, by parenteral method. As with other antibiotics, use of this drug may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms, including fungi. If superinfection occurs, appropriate therapy should be instituted. Prescribing Bacitracin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria. There have been reports of anaphylaxis and/or allergic contact dermatitis in patients exposed to Bacitracin in non-approved indications. Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs, including Bacitracin, should only be used to treat bacterial infections. They do not treat viral infections (e.g., the common cold). When Bacitracin is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection, patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy, the medication should be taken exactly as directed. Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may (1) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and (2) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Bacitracin or other antibacterial drugs in the future. Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued. Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics, patients can develop watery and bloody stools (with or without stomach cramps and fever) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic. If this occurs, patients should contact their physician as soon as possible."$$
"Warnings Do not use if allergic to iodine in the eyes For external use only Ask a doctor before use if injuries are deep or puncture wounds serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if redness, irritation, swelling or pain persists or increases infection occurs Avoid pooling beneath patient Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professionalassistance or consult a poison control center immediately."$$
