
"6. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Each gram of Topex 20% benzocaine gel or liquid contains between 180-220mg benzocaine in a flavored base. Using a new cotton applicator, apply a small amount of gel to the mucosa to achieve topical anesthesia. Do not reintroduce the cotton applicator into the bottle. For topical tissue anesthesia during scaling procedures, dispense a small amount of Topex gel or liquid into a dappen dish, then coat the scaler with the product prior to use. Tightly re-cap the jar after each use."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS All medicines may cause side effects, but many people have no, or minor, side effects. No COMMON side effects have been reported with benzocaine gel. Seek medical attention right away if any of these SEVERE side effects occur: Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); mouth burning, irritation, redness, swelling, or tenderness. This is not a complete list of all side effects that may occur. If you have questions about side effects, contact your health care provider."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report suspected side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: During or immediately after treatment, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. CALL YOUR DOCTOR ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS. Call your doctor about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088."$$
"Adverse Reactions Hypersensitivity Reactions: Unpredictable adverse reactions (i.e. hypersensi-\\302\\255 tivity, including anaphylaxis) are extremely rare. Localized allergic reactions may occur after prolonged or repeated use of any aminobenzoate anesthetic. The most common adverse reaction caused by local anesthetics is contact dermatitis characterized by erythema and pruritus that may progress to vesiculation and oozing. This occurs most commonly in patients following prolonged self-medication, which is contraindicated. If rash, urticaria, edema, or other manifestations of allergy develop during use, the drug should be discontinued. To minimize the possibility of a serious allergic reaction, OneTouch Advanced Gel should not be applied for prolonged periods except under continual supervision. Dehydration of the epithelium or an escharotic ef-\\302\\255 fect may also result from prolonged contact."$$
"Adverse Reactions Hypersensitivity Reactions : Unpredictable adverse reactions (i.e. hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis) are extremely rare. Localized allergic reactions may occur after prolonged or repeated use of any aminobenzoate anesthetic. The most common adverse reaction caused by local anesthetics is contact dermatitis characterized by erythema and pruritus that may progress to vesiculation and oozing. This occurs most commonly in patients following prolonged self-medication, which is contraindicated. If rash, urticaria, edema, or other manifestations of allergy develop during use, the drug should be discontinued. To minimize the possibility of a serious allergic reaction, Cetacaine preparations should not be applied for prolonged periods except under continual supervision. Dehydration of the epithelium or an escharotic effect may also result from prolonged contact. Precaution: On rare occasions, methemoglobinemia has been reported in connection with the use of benzocaine-containing products. Care should be used not to exceed the maximum recommended dosage (see Dosage and Administration). If a patient becomes cyanotic, treat appropriately to counteract (such as with methylene blue, if medically indicated)."$$
"Adverse Reactions Hypersensitivity Reactions Unpredictable adverse reactions (i.e. hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis) are extremely rare. Localized allergic reactions may occur after prolonged or repeated use of any aminobenzoate anesthetic. The most common adverse reaction caused by local anesthetics is contact dermatitis characterized by erythema and pruritus that may progress to vesiculation and oozing. This occurs most commonly in patients following prolonged self-medication, which is contraindicated. If rash, urticaria, edema, or other manifestations of allergy develop during use, the drug should be discontinued. To minimize the possibility of a serious allergic reaction, Cetacaine preparations should not be applied for prolonged periods except under continual supervision. Dehydration of the epithelium or an escharotic effect may also result from prolonged contact. Precaution On rare occasions, methemoglobinemia has been reported in connection with the use of benzocaine-containing products. Care should be used not to exceed the maximum recommended dosage (see Dosage and Administration). If a patient becomes cyanotic, treat appropriately to counteract (such as with methylene blue, if medically indicated). Use in Pregnancy Safe use of Cetacaine has not been established with respect to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Therefore, Cetacaine should not be used during early pregnancy, unless in the judgement of a physician, the potential benefits outweigh the unknown hazards. Routine precaution for the use of any topical anesthetic should be observed when Cetacaine is used."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Methemoglobinemia has been reported following the use of benzocaine on extremely rare occasions. Intravenous methylene blue is the specific therapy for this condition."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Methemoglobinemia has been reported following the use of benzocaine on extremely rare occasions. Intravenous methylene blue is the specific therapy for this condition."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids have been observed: itching, burning, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneform eruptions, hypopigmentations, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"Back page of Complete Instructions: Caution: Federal law restricts this device to sale by or on the order of a licensed professional. Disclaimer: CAO Group believes this information to be accurate and is offered only for the benefit of its customers for use of the product under proscribed conditions. This document is not to be considered a warranty or guarantee of product performance, and CAO Group is not legally bound to such claims based on this document. Manufactured by CAO (China) Medical Equipment Co,. Ltd. for CAO Group. Inc. P 877.236.4408 F 801.256.9287 4628 West Skyhawk Drive, West Jordan, UT 84084-4501 U.S.A. www.caogroup.com SAL-CAI001C.1/22SEP2010"$$
"Caution: KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Store at room temperature. Do not expose to excessive heat over 40 degrees C or 104 degrees F Rx Only"$$
"Cetacaine Spray contains CFC-114 and CFC-11, substances which harm public health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere. RX Only."$$
"Vagi Care For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. In case of eye contact, flush with plenty of water. If irritation persist, seek medical advice. Stop use and ask a doctor if conditin worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and reoccur within a few days. Do not apply over large areas of skin."$$
"Warnings: For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. If this happens, rinse thoroughly with water."$$
"Warnings: KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Store at room temperature. Do not expose to excessive heat (over 40 degrees C or 104 degrees F)"$$
