"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Only administer BabyBIG as an intravenous infusion, since other routes of administration have not been evaluated. Do not use BabyBIG if the reconstituted solution is turbid [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.1) ]. Assess renal function prior to and following administration (5.1, 5.2). Anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity reactions may occur (5.4). This risk should be considered when an IgA-deficient patient is to receive subsequent administration of blood products containing IgA after previous treatment with BabyBIG (4). Hyperproteinemia, increased serum viscosity and hyponatremia may occur in patients receiving immune globulin intravenous (human) (IGIV) therapy (5.6). Thrombotic events have occurred in patients receiving IGIV products. Monitor patients with known risk factors for thrombotic events; consider baseline assessment of blood viscosity for those at risk of hyperviscosity (5.7). Hemolytic anemia can develop subsequent to IGIV therapy due to enhanced RBC sequestration (5.8). IGIV recipients should be monitored for pulmonary adverse reactions, such as Transfusion-Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI) (5.9). Aseptic meningitis syndrome (AMS) has been reported with other IGIV treatment, especially with high doses or rapid infusion (5.5). The product is made from human plasma and may contain infectious agents, e.g. viruses and, theoretically, the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease agent (5.3). 5.1 Patient Monitoring for Administration Patients should be well hydrated prior to the initiation of the BabyBIG infusion. Assess renal function, including the measurement of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine prior to the initial infusion of BabyBIG [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2) ]. Periodic monitoring of renal function tests and urine output is particularly important in patients judged to have a potential risk for developing acute renal failure.[1-4] Increases in serum creatinine and BUN have been observed as soon as one to two days following treatment with other IGIV products. During administration, monitor the patient's vital signs continuously and observe the patient carefully for any associated symptoms. DO NOT EXCEED THE RECOMMENDED INFUSION RATE of 1 mL/kg/hour (50 mg/kg/h), and follow the infusion schedule closely [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.3) ]. If a patient develops an infusion reaction, slow the rate of infusion immediately or temporarily interrupt the infusion. 5.2 Renal Adverse Reactions Other IGIV products have been reported to be associated with renal dysfunction, acute renal failure, osmotic nephrosis, and death.[5-6] While these reports of renal dysfunction and acute renal failure have been associated with the use of many licensed IGIV products, those that contained sucrose as a stabilizer and were administered at daily doses of 400 mg/kg or greater have accounted for a disproportionate share of the total number.[7] BabyBIG contains sucrose as a stabilizer. Patients predisposed to acute renal failure include those patients with any degree of pre-existing renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, volume depletion, sepsis, paraproteinemia, or who are receiving known nephrotoxic drugs. Especially in such patients, BabyBIG should be administered at the minimum concentration available and at the minimum rate of infusion practicable.[1] 5.3 Transmission of Blood-Borne Infectious Agents BabyBIG is made from human plasma and, like other plasma products, carries the possibility for transmission of blood-borne viral agents and, theoretically, the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease agent. The risk of transmission of recognized blood-borne viruses has been reduced by screening plasma donors for prior exposure to certain viruses, for the presence of certain viral infections, and by the viral inactivation and/or removal properties of the precipitation procedures used for the purification of BabyBIG [see DESCRIPTION (11) ]. Despite these measures, some as yet unrecognized blood-borne infectious agents may not be inactivated by the manufacturing process; therefore, BabyBIG, like any other blood product, should be given only if a benefit is expected [see PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION (17) ]. 5.4 Anaphylaxis Severe reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic shock, although not observed during clinical trials with BabyBIG, are a possibility.[8,9] Clinical anaphylaxis may occur even when the patient is not known to be sensitive to immune globulin products. A reaction may be related to the rate of infusion; therefore, carefully adhere to the infusion rates as outlined under \\\\"DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.3).\\\\" If anaphylaxis or a drop in blood pressure occurs, discontinue the infusion and administer epinephrine.[1-4] Although acute systemic allergic reactions were not seen in clinical trials with BabyBIG, epinephrine should be available for treatment of acute allergic symptoms [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.1) ]. If hypotension or anaphylaxis occurs, discontinue the administration of BabyBIG immediately and give supportive care as needed. 5.5 Aseptic Meningitis Syndrome An aseptic meningitis syndrome (AMS) has been reported to occur infrequently in association with IGIV administration.[10-13] The syndrome usually begins within several hours to two days following IGIV treatment. It is characterized by symptoms and signs that include the following: severe headache, nuchal rigidity, drowsiness, fever, photophobia, painful eye movements, and nausea and vomiting. Cerebrospinal fluid studies are frequently positive with pleocytosis up to several thousand cells per cubic millimeter, predominately from the granulocytic series, and with elevated protein levels up to several hundred mg/dL. Conduct a thorough neurological examination in patients exhibiting such symptoms and signs to rule out other causes of meningitis.[10-13] AMS may occur more frequently in association with high total doses (2 g/kg) of IGIV treatment. Discontinuation of IGIV treatment has resulted in remission of AMS within several days without sequelae.[1] AMS was not observed in clinical trials of BabyBIG. 5.6 Hyperproteinemia, Hyponatremia, and Serum Viscosity Hyperproteinemia, hyponatremia, and increased serum viscosity have been observed following administration of IGIV products. It is clinically critical to distinguish true hyponatremia from pseudohyponatremia caused by decreased calculated serum osmolality or elevated osmolar gap, because treatment aimed at decreasing serum free water in patients with pseudohyponatremia may lead to volume depletion, a further increase in serum viscosity and a higher risk of thromboembolic events. These adverse events have not been observed with BabyBIG. 5.7 Thrombotic Events Thrombotic events may occur following IGIV treatment. Patients at risk may include those with a history of atherosclerosis, multiple cardiovascular risk factors, advanced age, impaired cardiac output, coagulation disorders, prolonged periods of immobilization, and/or known or suspected hyperviscosity. Consider baseline assessment of blood viscosity in patients at risk for hyperviscosity, including those with cryoglobulins, fasting chylomicronemia/markedly high triacylglycerols (triglycerides), or monoclonal gammopathies. For patients judged to be at risk of developing thrombotic events, administer BabyBIG at the minimum rate of infusion practicable. 5.8 Hemolytic Anemia IGIV products may contain blood group antibodies, which can act as hemolysins and induce in vivo coating of red blood cells with immunoglobulin, causing a positive direct antiglobulin reaction and, rarely, hemolysis. Hemolytic anemia may develop subsequent to IGIV therapy due to enhanced red blood cell sequestration. Monitor patients for clinical signs and symptoms of hemolysis. If these are present after BabyBIG infusion, perform appropriate confirmatory laboratory testing. 5.9 Transfusion-Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI) Non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema may occur in patients following IGIV treatment.[31] TRALI is characterized by severe respiratory distress, pulmonary edema, hypoxemia, normal left ventricular function, and fever. Symptoms typically occur within 1 to 6 hours following treatment [See PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION (17)]. Monitor patients for pulmonary adverse reactions. If TRALI is suspected, perform appropriate tests for the presence of anti-neutrophil antibodies in both the product and patient serum. TRALI may be managed using oxygen therapy with adequate ventilatory support."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - The potency Units of DYSPORT(R) are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products and, therefore, units of biological activity of DYSPORT(R) cannot be compared to or converted into units of any other botulinum toxin products (5.1) - Recommended dose and frequency of administration should not be exceeded (5.4) - Immediate medical attention may be required in cases of respiratory, speech or swallowing difficulties (5.3) - Concomitant neuromuscular disorder may exacerbate clinical effects of treatment (5.5) - DYSPORT (R) contains human albumin. There is a risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) however, no cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been identified for albumin (5.6) 5.1 Lack of Interchangeability between Botulinum Toxin Products The potency Units of DYSPORT(R) are specific to the preparation and assay method utilized. They are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products and, therefore, units of biological activity of DYSPORT(R) cannot be compared to or converted into units of any other botulinum toxin products assessed with any other specific assay method [see Description (11) ]. 5.2 Spread of Toxin Effect Post-marketing safety data from DYSPORT (R) and other approved botulinum toxins suggest that botulinum toxin effects may, in some cases, be observed beyond the site of local injection. The symptoms are consistent with the mechanism of action of botulinum toxin and may include asthenia, generalized muscle weakness, diplopia, blurred vision, ptosis, dysphagia, dysphonia, dysarthria, urinary incontinence and breathing difficulties. These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection. Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be life threatening and there have been reports of death related to spread of toxin effects. The risk of the symptoms is probably greatest in children treated for spasticity but symptoms can also occur in adults treated for spasticity and other conditions, and particularly in those patients who have underlying conditions that would predispose them to these symptoms. In unapproved uses, including spasticity in children and in approved indications, symptoms consistent with spread of toxin effect have been reported at doses comparable to or lower than the maximum recommended total dose. 5.3 Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties Treatment with DYSPORT (R) and other botulinum toxin products can result in swallowing or breathing difficulties. Patients with pre- existing swallowing or breathing difficulties may be more susceptible to these complications. In most cases, this is a consequence of weakening of muscles in the area of injection that are involved in breathing or swallowing. When distant effects occur, additional respiratory muscles may be involved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Deaths as a complication of severe dysphagia have been reported after treatment with botulinum toxin. Dysphagia may persist for several weeks, and require use of a feeding tube to maintain adequate nutrition and hydration. Aspiration may result from severe dysphagia and is a particular risk when treating patients in whom swallowing or respiratory function is already compromised. Treatment of cervical dystonia with botulinum toxins may weaken neck muscles that serve as accessory muscles of ventilation. This may result in a critical loss of breathing capacity in patients with respiratory disorders who may have become dependent upon these accessory muscles. There have been post-marketing reports of serious breathing difficulties, including respiratory failure. Patients treated with botulinum toxin may require immediate medical attention should they develop problems with swallowing, speech or respiratory disorders. These reactions can occur within hours to weeks after injection with botulinum toxin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Adverse Reactions (6.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 5.4 Facial Anatomy in the Treatment of Glabellar Lines Caution should be exercised when administering DYSPORT (R) to patients with surgical alterations to the facial anatomy, excessive weakness or atrophy in the target muscle(s), marked facial asymmetry, inflammation at the injection site(s), ptosis, excessive dermatochalasis, deep dermal scarring, thick sebaceous skin [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 ] or the inability to substantially lessen glabellar lines by physically spreading them apart [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Do not exceed the recommended dosage and frequency of administration of DYSPORT (R) . In clinical trials, subjects who received a higher dose of DYSPORT (R) had an increased incidence of eyelid ptosis. 5.5 Pre-existing Neuromuscular Disorders Individuals with peripheral motor neuropathic diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or neuromuscular junction disorders (e.g., myasthenia gravis or Lambert-Eaton syndrome) should be monitored particularly closely when given botulinum toxin. Patients with neuromuscular disorders may be at increased risk of clinically significant effects including severe dysphagia and respiratory compromise from typical doses of DYSPORT (R) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 5.6 Human Albumin This product contains albumin, a derivative of human blood. Based on effective donor screening and product manufacturing processes, it carries an extremely remote risk for transmission of viral diseases. A theoretical risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is also considered extremely remote. No cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been reported for albumin. 5.7 Intradermal Immune Reaction The possibility of an immune reaction when injected intradermally is unknown. The safety of DYSPORT (R) for the treatment of hyperhidrosis has not been established. DYSPORT(R) is approved only for intramuscular injection ."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The potency Units of DYSPORT(R) are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products and, therefore, units of biological activity of DYSPORT(R) cannot be compared to or converted into units of any other botulinum toxin products (5.1) Recommended dose and frequency of administration should not be exceeded (5.4) Immediate medical attention may be required in cases of respiratory, speech or swallowing difficulties (5.3) Concomitant neuromuscular disorder may exacerbate clinical effects of treatment (5.5) DYSPORT (R) contains human albumin. There is a risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) however, no cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been identified for albumin (5.6) 5.1 Lack of Interchangeability between Botulinum Toxin Products The potency Units of DYSPORT(R) are specific to the preparation and assay method utilized. They are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products and, therefore, units of biological activity of DYSPORT(R) cannot be compared to or converted into units of any other botulinum toxin products assessed with any other specific assay method [see Description (11) ]. 5.2 Spread of Toxin Effect Post-marketing safety data from DYSPORT (R) and other approved botulinum toxins suggest that botulinum toxin effects may, in some cases, be observed beyond the site of local injection. The symptoms are consistent with the mechanism of action of botulinum toxin and may include asthenia, generalized muscle weakness, diplopia, blurred vision, ptosis, dysphagia, dysphonia, dysarthria, urinary incontinence and breathing difficulties. These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection. Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be life threatening and there have been reports of death related to spread of toxin effects. The risk of the symptoms is probably greatest in children treated for spasticity but symptoms can also occur in adults treated for spasticity and other conditions, and particularly in those patients who have underlying conditions that would predispose them to these symptoms. In unapproved uses, including spasticity in children and in approved indications, symptoms consistent with spread of toxin effect have been reported at doses comparable to or lower than the maximum recommended total dose. 5.3 Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties Treatment with DYSPORT (R) and other botulinum toxin products can result in swallowing or breathing difficulties. Patients with pre- existing swallowing or breathing difficulties may be more susceptible to these complications. In most cases, this is a consequence of weakening of muscles in the area of injection that are involved in breathing or swallowing. When distant effects occur, additional respiratory muscles may be involved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Deaths as a complication of severe dysphagia have been reported after treatment with botulinum toxin. Dysphagia may persist for several weeks, and require use of a feeding tube to maintain adequate nutrition and hydration. Aspiration may result from severe dysphagia and is a particular risk when treating patients in whom swallowing or respiratory function is already compromised. Treatment of cervical dystonia with botulinum toxins may weaken neck muscles that serve as accessory muscles of ventilation. This may result in a critical loss of breathing capacity in patients with respiratory disorders who may have become dependent upon these accessory muscles. There have been post-marketing reports of serious breathing difficulties, including respiratory failure. Patients treated with botulinum toxin may require immediate medical attention should they develop problems with swallowing, speech or respiratory disorders. These reactions can occur within hours to weeks after injection with botulinum toxin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Adverse Reactions (6.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 5.4 Facial Anatomy in the Treatment of Glabellar Lines Caution should be exercised when administering DYSPORT (R) to patients with surgical alterations to the facial anatomy, excessive weakness or atrophy in the target muscle(s), marked facial asymmetry, inflammation at the injection site(s), ptosis, excessive dermatochalasis, deep dermal scarring, thick sebaceous skin [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 ] or the inability to substantially lessen glabellar lines by physically spreading them apart [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Do not exceed the recommended dosage and frequency of administration of DYSPORT (R) . In clinical trials, subjects who received a higher dose of DYSPORT (R) had an increased incidence of eyelid ptosis. 5.5 Pre-existing Neuromuscular Disorders Individuals with peripheral motor neuropathic diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or neuromuscular junction disorders (e.g., myasthenia gravis or Lambert-Eaton syndrome) should be monitored particularly closely when given botulinum toxin. Patients with neuromuscular disorders may be at increased risk of clinically significant effects including severe dysphagia and respiratory compromise from typical doses of DYSPORT (R) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 5.6 Human Albumin This product contains albumin, a derivative of human blood. Based on effective donor screening and product manufacturing processes, it carries an extremely remote risk for transmission of viral diseases. A theoretical risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is also considered extremely remote. No cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been reported for albumin. 5.7 Intradermal Immune Reaction The possibility of an immune reaction when injected intradermally is unknown. The safety of DYSPORT (R) for the treatment of hyperhidrosis has not been established. DYSPORT(R) is approved only for intramuscular injection ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions were not observed in clinical trials using BabyBIG. The most common adverse reaction observed with BabyBIG treatment during clinical trials (>5%) was skin rash. Other reactions such as chills, muscle cramps, back pain, fever, nausea, vomiting, and wheezing were the most frequent adverse reactions observed during the clinical trials of similarly-prepared human IGIV products[21]. The incidence of these reactions was less than 5% of all infusions in BabyBIG clinical trials, and these reactions were most often related to infusion rates.[7] The most common adverse reaction occurring in at least 5% of the patients treated with BabyBIG in a controlled clinical study was mild and transient erythematous rash of the face or trunk (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact the California Department of Public Health at 1-510-231-7600 and http://www.infantbotulism.org/ or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Two clinical studies of BabyBIG were performed: (1) an adequate and well-controlled study to evaluate safety and efficacy of BabyBIG, which used BabyBIG Lot 1, and (2) an open label study to collect additional safety data and confirm efficacy, which used BabyBIG Lot 2 [see Clinical Studies (14) ].[14,15] Different methodologies were used to collect adverse events in the controlled study and open label study. Minor clinical events that were not recorded as adverse events in the controlled study were recorded as adverse events in the open label study. The only adverse event considered possibly related to BabyBIG administration was a mild, transient erythematous rash of the face or trunk. The following table summarizes the occurrence of rash by day of study relative to day of treatment for the randomized, controlled clinical trial (RCT) and for the open label study (OLS). Day of Study Relative to Treatment RCT OLS PlaceboBoth Gammagard 5% and Gammagard S/D 5% were used as placebo in this study. (N=64) BabyBIG (N=65) BabyBIG (N=293) n (%) Day -5 0 (0) 1 (2) 6 (2) Day -4 2 (3) 1 (2) 5 (2) Day -3 3 (5) 4 (6) 6 (2) Day -2 5 (8) 2 (3) 22 (8) Day -1 4 (6) 11 (17) 28 (10) Day 0Day 0 is the day of treatment. BeforeIn reference to treatment. 5 (8) 9 (14) 32 (11) During & After 2 (3) 9 (14) 39 (13) Day +1 2 (3) 1 (2) 18 (6) Day +2 1 (2) 2 (3) 13 (4) Day +3 3 (5) 0 (0) 7 (2) Day +4 1 (2) 2 (3) 11 (4) Day +5 2 (3) 0 (0) 5 (2) In the controlled study, when only treatment emergent events are considered, 14% of the BabyBIG-treated patients experienced erythematous rash during or after study infusion. Eight percent of placebo-treated patients also experienced erythematous rash in this study. A similar rash is known to occur both in infant botulism patients who have not received any IGIV products[16] and in patients treated with other IGIVs,[2,3] making it difficult to ascertain the causality of the rash. In the controlled study only, the following adverse events occurred in at least 5% of the patients receiving BabyBIG or placebo: Adverse Event BabyBIG N=65 PlaceboBoth Gammagard 5% and Gammagard S/D 5% were used as placebo in this study. N=64 n (%) N (%) of Patients with any AE 20 (31) 29 (45) Rash erythematous 9 (14) 5 (8) Otitis media 7 (11) 5 (8) Pneumonia 7 (11) 9 (14) Anemia 3 (5) 9 (14) Hyponatremia 3 (5) 9 (14) Hypertension 1 (2) 3 (5) Respiratory arrest 1 (2) 6 (9) Urinary tract infection 1 (2) 8 (13) Convulsions 0 3 (5) In the open label study only, the following adverse events occurred in at least 5% of the patients: Adverse Event BabyBIG N=293 N (%) Patients with Any AE 285 (97) Blood pressure increased 221 (75) Dysphagia 190 (65) Irritability 121 (41) Atelectasis 113 (39) Rhonchi 100 (34) Pallor 83 (28) Loose stools 73 (25) Dermatitis contact 70 (24) Rash erythematous 64 (22) Vomiting 58 (20) Nasal congestion 54 (18) Edema 54 (18) Oxygen saturation decreased 51 (17) Pyrexia 51 (17) Body temperature decreased 48 (16) Blood pressure decreased 47 (16) Cardiac murmur 45 (15) Cough 39 (13) Rales 37 (13) Abdominal distension 33 (11) Breath sounds decreased 30 (10) Dehydration 30 (10) Agitation 29 (10) Hemoglobin decreased 27 (9) Stridor 26 (9) Lower respiratory tract infection 23 (8) Oral candidiasis 23 (8) Injection-site reaction 21 (7) Tachycardia NOS 20 (7) Peripheral coldness 19 (7) Dyspnea NOS 16 (6) Hyponatremia 16 (6) Injection-site erythema 15 (5) Intubation NOS 15 (5) Metabolic acidosis 15 (5) Neurogenic bladder 15 (5) Anemia 14 (5) Tachypnea 14 (5) Adverse event coding was used in the open label study to distinguish between minor clinical events that required no intervention and more significant events that required intervention. For example, \\\\"increased blood pressure\\\\" or \\\\"decreased blood pressure\\\\" was assigned when transient changes in blood pressure were observed, whereas \\\\"hypertension\\\\" or \\\\"hypotension\\\\" was assigned when more prolonged or significant changes were observed. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because postmarketing reporting of adverse reactions is voluntary and from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency of these reactions or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Experience with BabyBIG. No adverse reactions have been identified or reported that are ascribed to the use of BabyBIG during postapproval use. Retrospective publications have shown safety-related information consistent with the safety-related information in the approved product labeling, and no new safety-related information has been presented for BabyBIG.[22. 23] Experience with Other IGIV Products. Some classes of adverse reactions that have not been reported in BabyBIG clinical studies or postmarketing experience have been observed with the overall post-approval use of other IGIV products, as shown in the following table. Respiratory Apnea, Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), Transfusion Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI), cyanosis, hypoxemia, pulmonary edema, dyspnea, bronchospasm Cardiovascular Cardiac arrest, thromboembolism, vascular collapse, hypotension Neurological Coma, loss of consciousness, seizures, tremor Integumentary Steven-Johnson syndrome, epidermolysis, erythema multiforme, bullous dermatitis Hematologic Pancytopenia, leukopenia, hemolysis, positive direct antiglobulin (Coombs') test General / Body as a Whole Pyrexia, rigors Musculoskeletal Back pain Gastrointestinal Hepatic dysfunction, abdominal pain"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed below and elsewhere in labeling: Distant Spread of Toxin Effect [see Boxed Warning] Lack of Interchangeability between Botulinum Toxin Products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Spread of Effects from Toxin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Facial Anatomy in the Treatment of Glabellar Lines [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pre-existing Neuromuscular Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Human Albumin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Intradermal Immune Reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5. 7)] Cervical Dystonia Most commonly observed adverse reactions (> 5% of patients) are: muscular weakness, dysphagia, dry mouth, injection site discomfort, fatigue, headache, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, dysphonia, injection site pain, and eye disorders. (6.1) Glabellar Lines The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>=2%) are: nasopharyngitis, headache, injection site pain, injection site reaction, upper respiratory tract infection, eyelid edema, eyelid ptosis, sinusitis, and nausea. (6.1) Upper Limb Spasticity The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>=2%) are: urinary tract infection, nasopharyngitis, muscular weakness, musculoskeletal pain, dizziness, fall and depression.(6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. at 855-463-5127 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Cervical Dystonia The data described below reflect exposure to DYSPORT (R) in 357 cervical dystonia patients in 6 studies. Of these, two studies were randomized, double-blind, single treatment, placebo controlled studies with subsequent optional open label treatment in which dose optimization (250 to 1000 Units per treatment) over the course of 5 treatment cycles was allowed. The population was almost entirely Caucasian (99%) with a median age of 51 years (range 18-82 years). Most patients (87%) were less than 65 years of age; 58.4% were women. Common Adverse Reactions The most commonly reported adverse reactions (occurring in more than 5% of patients who received 500 Units of DYSPORT (R) in the placebo controlled clinical trials) in cervical dystonia patients were: muscular weakness, dysphagia, dry mouth, injection site discomfort, fatigue, headache, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, dysphonia, injection site pain, and eye disorders (consisting of blurred vision, diplopia, and reduced visual acuity and accommodation). Other than injection site reactions, most adverse reactions became noticeable about one week after treatment and lasted several weeks. The rates of adverse reactions were higher in the combined controlled and open-label experience than in the placebo-controlled trials. During the clinical studies, two patients (<1%) experienced adverse reactions leading to withdrawal. One patient experienced disturbance in attention, eyelid disorder, feeling abnormal and headache, and one patient experienced dysphagia. Table 3 compares the incidence of the most frequent adverse reactions from a single treatment cycle of 500 Units of DYSPORT (R) compared to placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Dose-response relationships for common adverse reactions in a randomized multiple fixed-dose study in which the total dose was divided between two muscles (the sternocleidomastoid and splenius capitis) are shown in Table 4. Injection Site Reactions Injection site discomfort and injection site pain were common adverse reactions following DYSPORT (R) administration. table-03 table-04 Less Common Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently (<5%). Breathing Difficulty Breathing difficulties were reported by approximately 3% of patients following DYSPORT (R) administration and in 1% of placebo patients in clinical trials during the double-blind phase. These consisted mainly of dyspnea. The median time to onset from last dose of DYSPORT (R) was approximately one week, and the median duration was approximately three weeks. Other adverse reactions with incidences of less than 5% in the DYSPORT (R) 500 Units group in the double-blind phase of clinical trials included dizziness in 3.5% of DYSPORT (R) -treated patients and 1% of placebo-treated patients, and muscle atrophy in 1% of DYSPORT (R) -treated patients and in none of the placebo-treated patients. Laboratory Findings Patients treated with DYSPORT (R) exhibited a small increase from baseline (0.23 mol/L) in mean blood glucose relative to placebo- treated patients. This was not clinically significant among patients in the development program but could be a factor in patients whose diabetes is difficult to control. Electrocardiographic Findings ECG measurements were only recorded in a limited number of patients in an open-label study without a placebo or active control. This study showed a statistically significant reduction in heart rate compared to baseline, averaging about three beats per minute, observed thirty minutes after injection. Glabellar Lines In placebo-controlled clinical trials of DYSPORT (R) , the most common adverse reactions(>=2%) following injection of DYSPORT (R) were nasopharyngitis, headache, injection site pain, injection site reaction, upper respiratory tract infection, eyelid edema, eyelid ptosis, sinusitis, and nausea. Table 5 reflects exposure to DYSPORT (R) in 398 patients 19 to 75 years of age who were evaluated in the randomized, placebo- controlled clinical studies that assessed the use of DYSPORT (R) for the temporary improvement in the appearance of glabellar lines [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Adverse reactions of any cause occurred in 48% of the DYSPORT (R) -treated patients and 33% of the placebo- treated patients. In the overall safety database, where some patients received up to twelve treatments with DYSPORT (R) , adverse reactions were reported for 57% (1425/2491) of patients. The most frequently reported of these adverse reactions were headache, nasopharyngitis, injection site pain, sinusitis, URI, injection site bruising, and injection site reaction (numbness, discomfort, erythema, tenderness, tingling, itching, stinging, warmth, irritation, tightness, swelling). Adverse reactions that occurred after repeated injections in 2-3% of the population included bronchitis, influenza, pharyngolaryngeal pain, cough, contact dermatitis, injection site swelling, and injection site discomfort. The incidence of eyelid ptosis did not increase in the long-term safety studies with multiple re-treatments at intervals >= three months. The majority of the reports of eyelid ptosis were mild to moderate in severity and resolved over several weeks. [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. table-05 Upper Limb Spasticity Table 6 lists the most frequently reported adverse reactions (>=2%) in any DYSPORT(R) dose group and more frequent than placebo in double blind studies evaluating the treatment of upper limb spasticity in adults with DYSPORT(R). Injection Site Reactions Injection site reactions (e.g. pain, bruising, haemorrhage, injection site erythema/haematoma etc.) have occurred following administration of DYSPORT(R). Less Common Adverse Reactions In a pooled analysis of clinical studies, adverse reactions with an incidence of less than 2% reported in DYSPORT (R) treatment groups included dysphagia 0.5%, gait disturbance 0.5%, hypertonia 0.5%, and sensation of heaviness 0.3%. table-06 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of DYSPORT(R): vertigo, photophobia, influenza-like illness, amyotrophy, burning sensation, facial paresis, hypoesthesia, erythema, and excessive granulation tissue. 6.3 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. The incidence of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. In addition, the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies across products in this class may be misleading. Cervical Dystonia About 3% of subjects developed antibodies (binding or neutralizing) over time with DYSPORT (R) treatment. Glabellar Lines Testing for antibodies to DYSPORT (R) was performed for 1554 subjects who had up to nine cycles of treatment. Two subjects (0.13%) tested positive for binding antibodies at baseline. Three additional subjects tested positive for binding antibodies after receiving DYSPORT (R) treatment. None of the subjects tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. Upper Limb Spasticity From 230 subjects treated with DYSPORT(R) and tested for the presence of binding antibodies, 5 subjects were positive at baseline and 17 developed antibodies after treatment. Among those 17 subjects, 10 subjects developed neutralizing antibodies. An additional 51 subjects from a separate repeat dose study were tested for the presence of neutralizing antibodies only. None of the subjects tested positive. In total, from the 281 subjects treated in the long-term studies and tested for the presence of neutralizing antibodies, 3.6% developed neutralizing antibodies after treatment. In the presence of binding and neutralizing antibodies to DYSPORT(R) some patients continue to experience clinical benefit."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed below and elsewhere in labeling: Distant Spread of Toxin Effect [see Boxed Warning] Lack of Interchangeability between Botulinum Toxin Products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Spread of Effects from Toxin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Facial Anatomy in the Treatment of Glabellar Lines [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pre-existing Neuromuscular Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Human Albumin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Intradermal Immune Reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5. 7)] Cervical Dystonia Most commonly observed adverse reactions (> 5% of patients) are: muscular weakness, dysphagia, dry mouth, injection site discomfort, fatigue, headache, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, dysphonia, injection site pain, and eye disorders. (6.1) Glabellar Lines The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>=2%) are: nasopharyngitis, headache, injection site pain, injection site reaction, upper respiratory tract infection, eyelid edema, eyelid ptosis, sinusitis, and nausea. (6.1) Upper Limb Spasticity The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>=2%) are: urinary tract infection, nasopharyngitis, muscular weakness, musculoskeletal pain, dizziness, fall and depression.(6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. at 877-397-7671 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Cervical Dystonia The data described below reflect exposure to DYSPORT (R) in 357 cervical dystonia patients in 6 studies. Of these, two studies were randomized, double-blind, single treatment, placebo controlled studies with subsequent optional open label treatment in which dose optimization (250 to 1000 Units per treatment) over the course of 5 treatment cycles was allowed. The population was almost entirely Caucasian (99%) with a median age of 51 years (range 18-82 years). Most patients (87%) were less than 65 years of age; 58.4% were women. Common Adverse Reactions The most commonly reported adverse reactions (occurring in more than 5% of patients who received 500 Units of DYSPORT (R) in the placebo controlled clinical trials) in cervical dystonia patients were: muscular weakness, dysphagia, dry mouth, injection site discomfort, fatigue, headache, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, dysphonia, injection site pain, and eye disorders (consisting of blurred vision, diplopia, and reduced visual acuity and accommodation). Other than injection site reactions, most adverse reactions became noticeable about one week after treatment and lasted several weeks. The rates of adverse reactions were higher in the combined controlled and open-label experience than in the placebo-controlled trials. During the clinical studies, two patients (<1%) experienced adverse reactions leading to withdrawal. One patient experienced disturbance in attention, eyelid disorder, feeling abnormal and headache, and one patient experienced dysphagia. Table 3 compares the incidence of the most frequent adverse reactions from a single treatment cycle of 500 Units of DYSPORT (R) compared to placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Table 3: Most Common Adverse Reactions (>5%) and Greater than Placebo in the Pooled, Double-blind Phase of Clinical Trials in Patients with Cervical Dystonia Adverse Reaction Preferred Term DYSPORT(R) 500 Units (N=173) Placebo (N=182) % % Any Adverse Reaction 61 51 General disorders and administration site conditions 30 23 Injection site discomfort 13 8 Fatigue 12 10 Injection site pain 5 4 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 30 18 Muscular weakness 16 4 Musculoskeletal pain 7 3 Gastrointestinal disorders 28 15 Dysphagia 15 4 Dry mouth 13 7 Nervous system disorders 16 13 Headache 11 9 Infections and infestations 13 9 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 12 8 Dysphonia 6 2 Eye DisordersThe following preferred terms were reported: vision blurred, diplopia, visual acuity reduced, eye pain, eyelid disorder, accommodation disorder, dry eye, eye pruritus. 7 2 Dose-response relationships for common adverse reactions in a randomized multiple fixed-dose study in which the total dose was divided between two muscles (the sternocleidomastoid and splenius capitis) are shown in Table 4. Table 4: Common Adverse Reactions by Dose in Fixed-dose Study in Patients with Cervical Dystonia Adverse Reaction Preferred Term DYSPORT(R) Dose Placebo 250 Units 500 Units 1000 Units Any Adverse Event 30% 37% 65% 83% Dysphagia 5% 21% 29% 39% Dry Mouth 10% 21% 18% 39% Muscular Weakness 0% 11% 12% 56% Injection Site Discomfort 10% 5% 18% 22% Dysphonia 0% 0% 18% 28% Facial Paresis 0% 5% 0% 11% Eye DisordersThe following preferred terms were reported: vision blurred, diplopia, visual acuity reduced, eye pain, eyelid disorder, accommodation disorder, dry eye, eye pruritus. 0% 0% 6% 17% Injection Site Reactions Injection site discomfort and injection site pain were common adverse reactions following DYSPORT (R) administration. Less Common Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently (<5%). Breathing Difficulty Breathing difficulties were reported by approximately 3% of patients following DYSPORT (R) administration and in 1% of placebo patients in clinical trials during the double-blind phase. These consisted mainly of dyspnea. The median time to onset from last dose of DYSPORT (R) was approximately one week, and the median duration was approximately three weeks. Other adverse reactions with incidences of less than 5% in the DYSPORT (R) 500 Units group in the double-blind phase of clinical trials included dizziness in 3.5% of DYSPORT (R) -treated patients and 1% of placebo-treated patients, and muscle atrophy in 1% of DYSPORT (R) -treated patients and in none of the placebo-treated patients. Laboratory Findings Patients treated with DYSPORT (R) exhibited a small increase from baseline (0.23 mol/L) in mean blood glucose relative to placebo- treated patients. This was not clinically significant among patients in the development program but could be a factor in patients whose diabetes is difficult to control. Electrocardiographic Findings ECG measurements were only recorded in a limited number of patients in an open-label study without a placebo or active control. This study showed a statistically significant reduction in heart rate compared to baseline, averaging about three beats per minute, observed thirty minutes after injection. Glabellar Lines In placebo-controlled clinical trials of DYSPORT (R) , the most common adverse reactions(>=2%) following injection of DYSPORT (R) were nasopharyngitis, headache, injection site pain, injection site reaction, upper respiratory tract infection, eyelid edema, eyelid ptosis, sinusitis, and nausea. Table 5 reflects exposure to DYSPORT (R) in 398 patients 19 to 75 years of age who were evaluated in the randomized, placebo- controlled clinical studies that assessed the use of DYSPORT (R) for the temporary improvement in the appearance of glabellar lines [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Adverse reactions of any cause occurred in 48% of the DYSPORT (R) -treated patients and 33% of the placebo- treated patients. Table 5: Most Common Adverse Reactions with > 1% Incidence in Pooled, Placebo-Controlled Trials for Glabellar Lines Adverse Reactions by Body System DYSPORT(R) n=398 (%)Patients who received treatment with placebo and DYSPORT (R) are counted in both treatment columns. Placebo n=496 (%) Any Adverse Reaction 48 33 Eye Disorders Eyelid Edema 2 0 Eyelid Ptosis 2 <1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 2 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Injection Site Pain 3 2 Injection Site Reaction 3 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 10 4 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 2 Sinusitis 2 1 Investigations Blood Present in Urine 2 <1 Nervous System Disorders Headache 9 5 In the overall safety database, where some patients received up to twelve treatments with DYSPORT (R) , adverse reactions were reported for 57% (1425/2491) of patients. The most frequently reported of these adverse reactions were headache, nasopharyngitis, injection site pain, sinusitis, URI, injection site bruising, and injection site reaction (numbness, discomfort, erythema, tenderness, tingling, itching, stinging, warmth, irritation, tightness, swelling). Adverse reactions that occurred after repeated injections in 2-3% of the population included bronchitis, influenza, pharyngolaryngeal pain, cough, contact dermatitis, injection site swelling, and injection site discomfort. The incidence of eyelid ptosis did not increase in the long-term safety studies with multiple re-treatments at intervals >= three months. The majority of the reports of eyelid ptosis were mild to moderate in severity and resolved over several weeks. [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Upper Limb Spasticity Table 6 lists the most frequently reported adverse reactions (>=2%) in any DYSPORT(R) dose group and more frequent than placebo in double blind studies evaluating the treatment of upper limb spasticity in adults with DYSPORT(R). Table 6: Most Common Adverse Reactions Observed in at Least 2% of Patients Treated in Pooled, Double-Blind Trials of Patients with Upper Limb Spasticity Reported More Frequently than with Placebo Adverse Reaction Preferred Term DYSPORT(R) Placebo 500 Units (N=197) % 1000 Units (N=194) % (N=279) % Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 4 1 1 Urinary tract infection 3 1 2 Influenza 1 2 1 Infection 1 2 1 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Muscular weakness 2 4 1 Pain in extremity 0 2 1 Musculoskeletal pain 3 2 2 Back pain 1 2 1 Nervous system disorders Headache 1 2 1 Dizziness 3 1 1 Convulsion 2 2 1 Syncope 1 2 0 Hypoaesthesia 0 2 <1 Partial seizures 0 2 0 General disorders and administration site conditions Fatigue 2 2 0 Asthenia 2 1 <1 Injury, poisoning and procedural complications Fall 2 3 2 Injury 2 2 1 Contusion 1 2 <1 Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 1 2 <1 Nausea 2 1 1 Constipation 0 2 1 Investigation Blood triglycerides increased 2 1 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 2 1 Vascular disorders Hypertension 1 2 <1 Psychiatric disorders Depression 2 3 1 Injection Site Reactions Injection site reactions (e.g. pain, bruising, haemorrhage, injection site erythema/haematoma etc.) have occurred following administration of DYSPORT(R). Less Common Adverse Reactions In a pooled analysis of clinical studies, adverse reactions with an incidence of less than 2% reported in DYSPORT (R) treatment groups included dysphagia 0.5%, gait disturbance 0.5%, hypertonia 0.5%, and sensation of heaviness 0.3%. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of DYSPORT(R): vertigo, photophobia, influenza-like illness, amyotrophy, burning sensation, facial paresis, hypoesthesia, erythema, and excessive granulation tissue. 6.3 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. The incidence of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. In addition, the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies across products in this class may be misleading. Cervical Dystonia About 3% of subjects developed antibodies (binding or neutralizing) over time with DYSPORT (R) treatment. Glabellar Lines Testing for antibodies to DYSPORT (R) was performed for 1554 subjects who had up to nine cycles of treatment. Two subjects (0.13%) tested positive for binding antibodies at baseline. Three additional subjects tested positive for binding antibodies after receiving DYSPORT (R) treatment. None of the subjects tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. Upper Limb Spasticity From 230 subjects treated with DYSPORT(R) and tested for the presence of binding antibodies, 5 subjects were positive at baseline and 17 developed antibodies after treatment. Among those 17 subjects, 10 subjects developed neutralizing antibodies. An additional 51 subjects from a separate repeat dose study were tested for the presence of neutralizing antibodies only. None of the subjects tested positive. In total, from the 281 subjects treated in the long-term studies and tested for the presence of neutralizing antibodies, 3.6% developed neutralizing antibodies after treatment. In the presence of binding and neutralizing antibodies to DYSPORT(R) some patients continue to experience clinical benefit."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Admixtures of BabyBIG with other drugs have not been evaluated. It is recommended that BabyBIG be administered separately from other drugs or medications that the patient may be receiving [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2) ]. Antibodies present in immune globulin preparations may interfere with the immune response to live virus vaccines such as polio, measles, mumps, and rubella; THEREFORE, VACCINATION WITH LIVE VIRUS VACCINES SHOULD BE DEFERRED UNTIL APPROXIMATELY THREE OR MORE MONTHS AFTER ADMINISTRATION OF BabyBIG. If such vaccinations were given shortly before or after BabyBIG administration, revaccination may be necessary. The passive transfer of antibodies may interfere with the response to live viral vaccines (7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with DYSPORT (R) . Patients treated concomitantly with botulinum toxins and aminoglycosides or other agents interfering with neuromuscular transmission (e.g., curare-like agents) should be observed closely because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. Use of anticholinergic drugs after administration of DYSPORT (R) may potentiate systemic anticholinergic effects such as blurred vision. The effect of administering different botulinum neurotoxin products at the same time or within several months of each other is unknown. Excessive weakness may be exacerbated by another administration of botulinum toxin prior to the resolution of the effects of a previously administered botulinum toxin. Excessive weakness may also be exaggerated by administration of a muscle relaxant before or after administration of DYSPORT (R) . - Concomitant use of DYSPORT (R) and aminoglycosides or other agents interfering with neuromuscular transmission (e.g., curare-like agents), or muscle relaxants, should be observed closely because the effect of botulinum toxin may be potentiated (7) - Anticholinergic drugs may potentiate systemic anticholinergic effects (7) - The effect of administering different botulinum neurotoxins during the course of treatment with DYSPORT (R) is unknown (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with DYSPORT (R) . Patients treated concomitantly with botulinum toxins and aminoglycosides or other agents interfering with neuromuscular transmission (e.g., curare-like agents) should be observed closely because the effect of the botulinum toxin may be potentiated. Use of anticholinergic drugs after administration of DYSPORT (R) may potentiate systemic anticholinergic effects such as blurred vision. The effect of administering different botulinum neurotoxin products at the same time or within several months of each other is unknown. Excessive weakness may be exacerbated by another administration of botulinum toxin prior to the resolution of the effects of a previously administered botulinum toxin. Excessive weakness may also be exaggerated by administration of a muscle relaxant before or after administration of DYSPORT (R) . Concomitant use of DYSPORT (R) and aminoglycosides or other agents interfering with neuromuscular transmission (e.g., curare-like agents), or muscle relaxants, should be observed closely because the effect of botulinum toxin may be potentiated (7) Anticholinergic drugs may potentiate systemic anticholinergic effects (7) The effect of administering different botulinum neurotoxins during the course of treatment with DYSPORT (R) is unknown (7)"$$
