"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Contents are flammable. Instruct the patient to avoid fire, flame, and smoking during and immediately following application. (5.1) -If elevation of serum calcium occurs, instruct patients to discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored. (5.2) -Avoid excessive exposure of the treated areas to natural or artificial sunlight. (5.3) 5.1 Flammability The propellant in SORILUX Foam is flammable. Instruct the patient to avoid fire, flame, and smoking during and immediately following application. 5.2 Effects on Calcium Metabolism Transient, rapidly reversible elevation of serum calcium has occurred with use of calcipotriene. If elevation in serum calcium outside the normal range should occur, discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored. 5.3 Risk of Ultraviolet Light Exposure Instruct the patient to avoid excessive exposure of the treated areas to either natural or artificial sunlight, including tanning booths and sun lamps. Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients who use SORILUX Foam. [See Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1).]"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The propellants in Enstilar(R) Foam are flammable. Instruct the patient to avoid fire, flame, and smoking during and immediately following application. (5.1) Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria have been observed with use of Enstilar(R) Foam. If hypercalcaemia or hypercalciuria develop, discontinue treatment until parameters of calcium metabolism have normalized. (5.2) Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of treatment. Risk factors include the use of high-potency topical corticosteroids, use over a large surface area or on areas under occlusion, prolonged use, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and use in pediatric patients. Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.3, 8.4) 5.1 Flammability The propellants in Enstilar(R) Foam are flammable. Instruct the patient to avoid fire, flame, and smoking during and immediately following application. 5.2 Hypercalcemia and Hypercalciuria Hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria have been observed with use of Enstilar(R) Foam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. If hypercalcaemia or hypercalciuria develop, discontinue treatment until parameters of calcium metabolism have normalized. The incidence of hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria following Enstilar(R) Foam treatment of more than 4 weeks has not been evaluated. 5.3 Effects on Endocrine System Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid. Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high-potency steroids, large treatment surface areas, prolonged use, use of occlusive dressings, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Evaluation for HPA axis suppression may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. If HPA axis suppression is documented, gradually withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid. Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3)]. Use of more than one corticosteroid-containing product at the same time may increase total systemic corticosteroid exposure. 5.4 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis has been observed with topical calcipotriene and topical corticosteroids. Allergic contact dermatitis to a topical corticosteroid is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Corroborate such an observation with appropriate diagnostic patch testing. 5.5 Risks of Ultraviolet Light Exposures Patients who apply Enstilar(R) Foam to exposed skin should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight, including tanning booths, sun lamps, etc. Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients who use Enstilar(R) Foam.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in < 1% of subjects included application site irritation, application site pruritus, folliculitis, skin hypopigmentation, hypercalcemia, urticaria, and exacerabation of psoriasis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact LEO Pharma Inc. at 1-877-494-4536 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/ medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The rates of adverse reactions given below were derived from three randomized, multicenter, prospective vehicle and/or active-controlled clinical trials in subjects with plaque psoriasis. Subjects applied study product once daily for 4 weeks, and the median weekly dose of Enstilar(R) Foam was 24.8 g. Adverse reactions reported in <1% of subjects treated with Enstilar(R) Foam included: application site irritation, application site pruritus, folliculitis, skin hypopigmentation, hypercalcemia, urticaria, and exacerbation of psoriasis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Postmarketing reports for local adverse reactions to topical steroids include atrophy, striae, telangiectasia, dryness, perioral dermatitis, secondary infection and miliaria.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in >=1% of subjects treated with SORILUX Foam and at a higher incidence than subjects treated with vehicle were application site erythema and application site pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-784-3335 (1-888-STIEFEL) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. SORILUX Foam was studied in four vehicle-controlled trials. A total of 1094 subjects with plaque psoriasis, including 654 exposed to SORILUX Foam, were treated twice daily for 8 weeks. Adverse reactions reported in >=1% of subjects treated with SORILUX Foam and at a higher incidence than subjects treated with vehicle were application site erythema (2%) and application site pain (3%). The incidence of these adverse reactions was similar between the body and scalp."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies were conducted with SORILUX Foam."$$
