
"ADVERSE REACTIONS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience In controlled clinical trials, the most frequent adverse experiences reported for calcipotriene cream, 0.005% were cases of skin irritation, which occurred in approximately 10-15% of patients. Rash, pruritus, dermatitis and worsening of psoriasis were reported in 1 to 10% of patients. Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions associated with the use of calcipotriene cream, 0.005% have been identified post-approval: contact dermatitis, including allergic contact dermatitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience In controlled clinical trials, the most frequent adverse experiences reported for calcipotriene cream, 0.005% were cases of skin irritation, which occurred in approximately 10-15% of patients. Rash, pruritus, dermatitis and worsening of psoriasis were reported in 1 to 10% of patients. Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions associated with the use of calcipotriene cream have been identified post-approval: contact dermatitis, including allergic contact dermatitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience In controlled clinical trials, the most frequent adverse experiences reported for Dovonex(R) (calcipotriene) Cream, 0.005% were cases of skin irritation, which occurred in approximately 10-15% of patients. Rash, pruritus, dermatitis and worsening of psoriasis were reported in 1 to 10% of patients. Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions associated with the use of Dovonex(R) Cream have been identified post-approval: contact dermatitis, including allergic contact dermatitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials, the most frequent adverse experiences reported for Dovonex(R) (calcipotriene cream) Cream, 0.005% were cases of skin irritation, which occurred in approximately 10-15% of patients. Rash, pruritus, dermatitis and worsening of psoriasis were reported in 1 to 10% of patients."$$
