"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Dose-related respiratory depression: Use with caution. ( 5.1 ) Drug Dependence: Prescribe with caution that is appropriate to the use of other opioids. ( 5.2 ) Head injury and increased intracranial pressure: Avoid in patients with head injury, intra-cranial lesions, or increased intracranial pressure. ( 5.3 ) Activities requiring mental alertness: Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery. ( 5.4 ) Acute abdominal conditions: Use with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions. ( 5.5 ) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy, or urethral stricture, or asthma. ( 5.10 ) 5.1 Respiratory Depression Hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution, produces dose-related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers. Overdose of hydrocodone bitartrate in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression, and the use of hydrocodone bitartrate in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Exercise caution when administering Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution because of the potential for respiratory depression. If respiratory depression occurs, discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution and use naloxone hydrochloride when indicated to antagonize the effect and other supportive measures as necessary [see Overdosage ( 10 ) ]. 5.2 Drug Dependence Hydrocodone can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychic dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution. Prescribe and administer hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other opioid drugs [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.2 , 9.3 ) ]. 5.3 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depression effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. The use of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be avoided in these patients. 5.4 Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate, the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution, may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution. Concurrent use of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur. 5.5 Acute Abdominal Conditions Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions since the administration of hydrocodone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) ]. 5.6 Co-administration with Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus. Exercise caution when using hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution in patients taking anticholinergic medications [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) ]. 5.7 Co-administration with MAOIs or Tricyclic Antidepressants Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should not be used in patients receiving MAOI therapy or within 14 days of stopping such therapy. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions (7.2 ) ]. 5.8 Dosing Patients should be advised to measure hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution with an accurate milliliter measuring device. Patients should be informed that a household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, which can result in serious adverse reactions [see Overdosage ( 10 ) ]. Patients should be advised to ask their pharmacist to recommend an appropriate measuring device and for instructions for measuring the correct dose. 5.9 Coexisting Conditions Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy, urethral stricture, or asthma. 5.10 Renal Impairment Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ]. 5.11 Hepatic Impairment Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Dose-related respiratory depression: Use with caution. (5.1) Drug Dependence: Prescribe with caution that is appropriate to the use of other opioids. (5.2) Head injury and increased intracranial pressure: Avoid in patients with head injury, intra-cranial lesions, or increased intracranial pressure. (5.3) Activities requiring mental alertness: Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery. (5.4 ) Avoid concurrent use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants. (5.4) Acute abdominal conditions: Use with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.5) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, or asthma. (5.10) 5.1 Respiratory Depression Hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution, produces dose-related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers. Overdose of hydrocodone bitartrate in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression, and the use of hydrocodone bitartrate in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Exercise caution when administering hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution because of the potential for respiratory depression. If respiratory depression occurs, discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution and use naloxone hydrochloride when indicated to antagonize the effect and other supportive measures as necessary [see Overdosage (10) ]. 5.2 Drug Dependence Hydrocodone can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychic dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution. Prescribe and administer hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other opioid drugs [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2 , 9.3) ]. 5.3 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depression effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. The use of hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution should be avoided in these patients. 5.4 Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate, two of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution, may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution. Concurrent use of hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur. 5.5 Acute Abdominal Conditions Hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution should be used with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions since the administration of hydrocodone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. 5.6 Co-administration with Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus. Exercise caution when using hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution in patients taking anticholinergic medications. [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. 5.7 Co-administration with MAOIs or Tricyclic Antidepressants Hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution should not be used in patients receiving MAOI therapy or within 14 days of stopping such therapy as an increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis, may occur. In addition, the use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 5.8 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects The pseudoephedrine hydrochloride contained in hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution can produce cardiovascular and central nervous system effects in some patients such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or arrhythmias. In addition, central nervous system stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension has been reported. Therefore, hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, and should not be used in patients with severe hypertension or coronary artery disease. 5.9 Dosing Patients should be advised to measure hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution with an accurate milliliter measuring device. Patients should be informed that a household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, which can result in serious adverse reactions [see Overdosage (10) ]. Patients should be advised to ask their pharmacist to recommend an appropriate measuring device and for instructions for measuring the correct dose. 5.10 Coexisting Conditions Hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution should be used with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, and asthma. 5.11 Renal Impairment Hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ; Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ]. 5.12 Hepatic Impairment Hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Dose-related respiratory depression: Use with caution. (5.1) -Drug Dependence: Prescribe with caution that is appropriate to the use of other opioids. (5.2) -Head injury and increased intracranial pressure: Avoid in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions, or increased intracranial pressure. (5.3) -Activities requiring mental alertness: Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery. (5.4) -Avoid concurrent use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants. (5.4) -Acute abdominal conditions: Use with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.5) -Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, or asthma. (5.10) 5.1 Respiratory Depression Hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution, produces dose-related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers. Overdose of hydrocodone bitartrate in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression, and the use of hydrocodone bitartrate in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Exercise caution when administering Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution because of the potential for respiratory depression. If respiratory depression occurs, discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution and use naloxone hydrochloride when indicated to antagonize the effect and other supportive measures as necessary [see OVERDOSAGE (10)]. 5.2 Drug Dependence Hydrocodone can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychic dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Prescribe and administer Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other opioid drugs [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE (9.2, 9.3)]. 5.3 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depression effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. The use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be avoided in these patients. 5.4 Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate, two of the active ingredients in Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution, may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Concurrent use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur. 5.5 Acute Abdominal Conditions Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions since the administration of hydrocodone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.3)]. 5.6 Co-administration with Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus. Exercise caution when using Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution in patients taking anticholinergic medications [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.3)]. 5.7 Co-administration with MAOIs or Tricyclic Antidepressants Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution should not be used in patients receiving MAOI therapy or within 14 days of stopping such therapy as an increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis, may occur. In addition, the use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.2)]. 5.8 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects The pseudoephedrine hydrochloride contained in Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution can produce cardiovascular and central nervous system effects in some patients such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or arrhythmias. In addition, central nervous system stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension has been reported. Therefore, Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, and should not be used in patients with severe hypertension or coronary artery disease. 5.9 Dosing Patients should be advised to measure Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution with an accurate milliliter measuring device. Patients should be informed that a household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, which can result in serious adverse reactions [see OVERDOSAGE (10)]. Patients should be advised to ask their pharmacist to recommend an appropriate measuring device and for instructions for measuring the correct dose. 5.10 Coexisting Conditions Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, and asthma. 5.11 Renal Impairment Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.6); Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. 5.12 Hepatic Impairment Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Dose-related respiratory depression: Use with caution. (5.1) Drug Dependence: Prescribe with caution that is appropriate to the use of other opioids. (5.2) Head injury and increased intracranial pressure: Avoid in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions, or increased intracranial pressure. (5.3) Activities requiring mental alertness: Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery. (5.4) Avoid concurrent use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants. (5.4) Acute abdominal conditions: Use with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.5) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, or asthma. (5.10) 5.1 Respiratory Depression Hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution, produces dose-related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers. Overdose of hydrocodone bitartrate in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression, and the use of hydrocodone bitartrate in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Exercise caution when administering hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution because of the potential for respiratory depression. If respiratory depression occurs, discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution and use naloxone hydrochloride when indicated to antagonize the effect and other supportive measures as necessary [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.2 Drug Dependence Hydrocodone can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychic dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution. Prescribe and administer hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other opioid drugs [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2, 9.3)]. 5.3 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depression effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. The use of hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be avoided in these patients. 5.4 Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate, two of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution, may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution. Concurrent use of hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur. 5.5 Acute Abdominal Conditions Hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions since the administration of hydrocodone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.6 Co-administration with Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus. Exercise caution when using hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution in patients taking anticholinergic medications [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.7 Co-administration with MAOIs or Tricyclic Antidepressants Hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should not be used in patients receiving MAOI therapy or within 14 days of stopping such therapy as an increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis, may occur. In addition, the use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.8 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects The pseudoephedrine hydrochloride contained in hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution can produce cardiovascular and central nervous system effects in some patients such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or arrhythmias. In addition, central nervous system stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension has been reported. Therefore, hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, and should not be used in patients with severe hypertension or coronary artery disease. 5.9 Dosing Patients should be advised to measure hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution with an accurate milliliter measuring device. Patients should be informed that a household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, which can result in serious adverse reactions [see Overdosage (10)]. Patients should be advised to ask their pharmacist to recommend an appropriate measuring device and for instructions for measuring the correct dose. 5.10 Coexisting Conditions Hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, and asthma. 5.11 Renal Impairment Hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6); Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. 5.12 Hepatic Impairment Hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Dose-related respiratory depression: Use with caution. (5.1) Drug Dependence: Prescribe with caution that is appropriate to the use of other opioids. (5.2) Head injury and increased intracranial pressure: Avoid in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions, or increased intracranial pressure. (5.3) Activities requiring mental alertness: Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery. (5.4) Avoid concurrent use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants. (5.4) Acute abdominal conditions: Use with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.5) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, or asthma. (5.10) 5.1 Respiratory Depression Hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution, produces dose-related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers. Overdose of hydrocodone bitartrate in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression, and the use of hydrocodone bitartrate in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Exercise caution when administering ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution because of the potential for respiratory depression. If respiratory depression occurs, discontinue ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution and use naloxone hydrochloride when indicated to antagonize the effect and other supportive measures as necessary [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.2 Drug Dependence Hydrocodone can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychic dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution. Prescribe and administer ZUTRIPRO(R) with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other opioid drugs [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2, 9.3)]. 5.3 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depression effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. The use of ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution should be avoided in these patients. 5.4 Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate, two of the active ingredients in ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution, may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution. Concurrent use of ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur. 5.5 Acute Abdominal Conditions ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions since the administration of hydrocodone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.6 Co-administration with Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus. Exercise caution when using ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution in patients taking anticholinergic medications [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.7 Co-administration with MAOIs or Tricyclic Antidepressants ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution should not be used in patients receiving MAOI therapy or within 14 days of stopping such therapy as an increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis, may occur. In addition, the use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.8 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects The pseudoephedrine hydrochloride contained in ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution can produce cardiovascular and central nervous system effects in some patients such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or arrhythmias. In addition, central nervous system stimulation with convulsions or cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension has been reported. Therefore, ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, and should not be used in patients with severe hypertension or coronary artery disease. 5.9 Dosing Patients should be advised to measure ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution with an accurate milliliter measuring device. Patients should be informed that a household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, which can result in serious adverse reactions [see Overdosage (10)]. Patients should be advised to ask their pharmacist to recommend an appropriate measuring device and for instructions for measuring the correct dose. 5.10 Coexisting Conditions ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with diabetes, thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, and asthma. 5.11 Renal Impairment ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6); Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. 5.12 Hepatic Impairment ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Dose-related respiratory depression: Use with caution (5.1) Drug Dependence: Prescribe with caution that is appropriate to the use of other opioids (5.2) Head injury and increased intracranial pressure: Avoid in patients with head injury, intra-cranial lesions, or increased intracranial pressure (5.3) Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery (5.4) Avoid concurrent use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants (5.4) Acute abdominal conditions: Use with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions (5.5) Coexisting Conditions: Use with caution in patients with thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture, or asthma (5.9) 5.1 Respiratory Depression Hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in Vituz Oral Solution, produces dose-related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers. Overdose of hydrocodone bitartrate in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression, and the use of hydrocodone bitartrate in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Exercise caution when administering Vituz Oral Solution because of the potential for respiratory depression. If respiratory depression occurs, discontinue Vituz Oral Solution and use naloxone hydrochloride when indicated to antagonize the effect and other supportive measures as necessary [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.2 Drug Dependence Hydrocodone can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychic dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of Vituz Oral Solution. Prescribe and administer Vituz with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other opioid drugs [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2, 9.3)]. 5.3 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depression effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. The use of Vituz Oral Solution should be avoided in these patients. 5.4 Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate, the active ingredients in Vituz Oral Solution, may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of Vituz Oral Solution. Concurrent use of Vituz Oral Solution with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur. 5.5 Acute Abdominal Conditions Vituz Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions since the administration of hydrocodone may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.6 Co-administration with Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus. Exercise caution when using Vituz Oral Solution in patients taking anticholinergic medications [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.7 Co-administration with MAOIs or Tricyclic Antidepressants Vituz Oral Solution should not be used in patients receiving MAOI therapy or within 14 days of stopping such therapy. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate, one of the active ingredients in Vituz Oral Solution, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.8 Dosing Patients should be advised to measure Vituz Oral Solution with an accurate milliliter measuring device. Patients should be informed that a household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, which can result in serious adverse reactions [see Overdosage (10)]. Patients should be advised to ask their pharmacist to recommend an appropriate measuring device and for instructions for measuring the correct dose. 5.9 Coexisting Conditions Vituz Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with thyroid disease, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy, urethral stricture, or asthma. 5.10 Renal Impairment Vituz Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. 5.11 Hepatic Impairment Vituz Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Risk of death in ultra-rapid metabolizers: Conversion of codeine into its active metabolite, morphine, may occur more rapidly and completely resulting in higher than expected morphine levels and respiratory depression or death. (5.1) -Dose-related respiratory depression: Use with caution. (5.2). -Drug dependence: Prescribe with caution that is appropriate to the use of other opioids. (5.3) -Head injury and increased intracranial pressure: Avoid in patients with head injury, intra-cranial lesions, or increased intracranial pressure. ( 5.4 ) -Activities requiring mental alertness: Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating heavy machinery. Avoid concurrent use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants. (5.5) -Acute abdominal conditions: Use with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.7) -Special risk patients: Caution in elderly patients and those with asthma, hypothyroidism, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture. (5.9) 5.1 Death Related to Ultra-Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine Respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine in the postoperative period following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy and had evidence of being ultra-rapid metabolizers of codeine (i.e., multiple copies of the gene for cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 2D6 [CYP2D6] or high morphine concentrations). Deaths have also occurred in nursing infants who were exposed to high levels of morphine in breast milk because their mothers were ultra-rapid metabolizers of codeine [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3)]. Some individuals may be ultra-rapid metabolizers because of a specific CYP2D6 genotype (gene duplications denoted as *1/*1xN or *1/*2xN). The prevalence of this CYP2D6 phenotype varies widely and has been estimated at 0.5 to 1% in Chinese and Japanese, 0.5 to 1% in Hispanics, 1 to 10% in Caucasians, 3% in African Americans, and 16 to 28% in North Africans, Ethiopians, and Arabs. Data are not available for other ethnic groups. These individuals convert codeine into its active metabolite, morphine, more rapidly and completely than other people. This rapid conversion results in higher than expected serum morphine levels. Even at labeled dosage regimens, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers may have life-threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose (such as extreme sleepiness, confusion, or shallow breathing) [see Overdosage (10)]. Children with obstructive sleep apnea who are treated with codeine for post-tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy pain may be particularly sensitive to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine that has been rapidly metabolized to morphine. Codeine is contraindicated for postoperative pain management in all pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Contraindications (4)]. When prescribing codeine-containing drugs, healthcare professionals should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose [see Use in Specific Populations (8), Overdosage (10)]. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Codeine, one of the active ingredients in TUZISTRA XR, produces dose-related respiratory depression by directly acting on brain stem respiratory centers. Codeine affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm and may produce irregular and periodic breathing. Caution should be exercised when TUZISTRA XR is used postoperatively, in patients with pulmonary disease or shortness of breath, or whenever ventilator function is depressed. Overdose of codeine in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression, and the use of codeine in children has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Exercise caution when administering TUZISTRA XR because of the potential for respiratory depression. If respiratory depression occurs, discontinue TUZISTRA XR and use naloxone hydrochloride when indicated to antagonize the effect and other supportive measures as necessary [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.3 Drug Dependence Codeine can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and, therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychological dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of TUZISTRA XR. Prescribe and administer TUZISTRA XR with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other opioid drugs [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2 , 9.3 )]. 5.4 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depression effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions that may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. The use of TUZISTRA XR should be avoided in these patients. 5.5 Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Codeine and chlorpheniramine, the active ingredients in TUZISTRA XR, may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of TUZISTRA XR. Concurrent use of TUZISTRA XR with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur. 5.6 Obstruction Bowel Disease Chronic use of opioids, including codeine, may result in constipation or obstructive bowel disease especially in patients with underlying intestinal motility disorders. Use with caution in patients with underlying intestinal motility disorders. 5.7 Acute Abdominal Conditions TUZISTRA XR should be used with caution in patients with acute abdominal conditions since the administration of codeine may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with codeine may produce paralytic ileus [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.8 Dosing Patients should be advised to measure TUZISTRA XR with an accurate milliliter measuring device. Patients should be informed that a household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, which can result in serious adverse reactions [see Overdosage (10)]. Patients should be advised to ask their pharmacist to recommend an appropriate measuring device and for instructions for measuring the correct dose. 5.9 Special Risk Patients As with other opioids, TUZISTRA XR should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients and those with asthma, persistent or chronic cough, hypothyroidism, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture. The usual precautions should be observed, and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of codeine, a semisynthetic opioid, may result in the following: -Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Overdosage (10)] -Drug dependence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -Increased intracranial pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Overdosage (10)] -Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Use of chlorpheniramine, an antihistamine, may result in: -Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Adverse reactions listed below have been reported in the literature for codeine and chlorpheniramine and may be expected to occur with TUZISTRA XR. Also included are events that occurred during clinical pharmacokinetic studies (in a total of 66 healthy adult volunteers with either single or multiple dose exposure) with TUZISTRA XR and judged by the investigator to be related to study treatment. Because these reactions may be reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergic: Allergic laryngospasm, nasal stuffiness, bronchospastic allergic reaction, hives, itching, swelling of face. Body as a whole: Asthenia, feeling of relaxation, redness or flushing of the face, unusual tiredness, weakness. Cardiovascular: Fast, or slow heartbeat, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, shock-like state, syncope. Dermatological System: Skin rash, pruritus, erythema, urticaria, excessive perspiration, dermatitis. Endocrine System: Changes in glucose utilization, decreased lactation, early menses, glycosuria, gynecomastia, hypoglycemia, increased appetite, increased libido, pheochromocytoma stimulation. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting, constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric distress, loss of appetite, diarrhea, gastro-esophageal reflux, gastrointestinal hypomotility. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, urinary retention, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy, irritative bladder symptom. Nervous System: Blurred vision, diplopia, visual disturbances, confusion, dizziness, depression, drowsiness, sedation, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, false sense of well-being, feeling faint, lightheadedness, general feeling of discomfort or illness, excitability, nervousness, agitation, restlessness, somnolence, insomnia, dyskinesia, irritability, tremor. Respiratory: Dryness of the pharynx and respiratory passages, laryngismus, atelectasis, wheezing, troubled breathing, respiratory depression, hiccups. Special Senses: labyrinthitis, tinnitus, vertigo, hypermetropia, lacrimation increased, mydriasis, photophobia. Common adverse reactions of TUZISTRA XR include: nausea and vomiting, constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, blurred vision, diplopia, visual disturbances, confusion, dizziness, depression, drowsiness, sedation, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, light-headedness, general feeling of discomfort or illness, excitability, nervousness, agitation, restlessness, somnolence, insomnia, dyskinesia, irritability, tremor. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Vernalis Therapeutics, Inc. 1-855-705-9546 and www.vernalistherapeutics.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of hydrocodone bitartrate, a semisynthetic opioid, may result in the following: Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] Drug dependence [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] Increased intracranial pressure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ] Use of chlorpheniramine, an antihistamine, may result in: Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified either during clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and/or chlorpheniramine maleate or during their use post-approval. Because these reactions may be reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The most common adverse reactions of hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, nausea, psychic dependence, mood changes; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, irritability, tremor. Other adverse reactions include: Respiratory: Dryness of the pharynx and respiratory passages, occasional tightness of the chest, laryngismus, wheezing, or troubled breathing. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting (more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients), constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric distress, and/or loss of appetite. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, urinary retention, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy. Dermatological System: Skin rash, pruritus, erythema, urticaria, excessive perspiration. Most common adverse reactions were sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, nausea, psychic dependence, mood changes; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, irritability, tremor ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Tris Pharma, Inc., at 732-940-0358 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of hydrocodone bitartrate, a semisynthetic opioid, may result in the following: Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Overdosage (10)] Drug dependence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Increased intracranial pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Overdosage (10)] Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Use of chlorpheniramine, an antihistamine, may result in: Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The following adverse reactions have been identified either during clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and/or chlorpheniramine maleate or during their use post-approval. Because these reactions may be reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The most common adverse reactions of Vituz Oral Solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, nausea, psychic dependence, mood changes; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, irritability, tremor. Other adverse reactions include: Respiratory: Dryness of the pharynx and respiratory passages, occasional tightness of the chest, laryngismus, wheezing, or troubled breathing. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting (more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients), constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric distress, and/or loss of appetite. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, urinary retention, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy. Dermatological System: Skin rash, pruritus, erythema, urticaria, excessive perspiration. Most common adverse reactions were sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, nausea, psychic dependence, mood changes; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, irritability, tremor (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hawthorn Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-793-2145 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of hydrocodone bitartrate, a semisynthetic opioid, may result in the following: -Respiratory depression [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1) and OVERDOSAGE (10)] -Drug dependence [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)] -Increased intracranial pressure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.3) and OVERDOSAGE (10)] -Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.4)] -Paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)] Use of pseudoephedrine, a sympathomimetic amine, may result in the following: -Central nervous system effects such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or convulsions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.8)] -Cardiovascular system effects such as arrhythmias, or increased blood pressure, cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.8)] Use of chlorpheniramine, an antihistamine, may result in: -Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.4)] The most common adverse reactions of Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. Other adverse reactions include: Cardiovascular: Fast, or slow heartbeat, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, shock-like state, syncope. Respiratory: Dryness of the pharynx and respiratory passages, occasional tightness of the chest, laryngismus, wheezing, or troubled breathing. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting (more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients), constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric distress, and/or loss of appetite. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, urinary retention, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy. Dermatological System: Skin rash, pruritus, erythema, urticaria, excessive perspiration. Endocrine System: Changes in glucose utilization, decreased lactation, early menses, glycosuria, gynecomastia, hypoglycemia, increased appetite, increased libido, pheochromocytoma stimulation. Special Senses: Labyrinthitis, tinnitus, vertigo, hypermetropia, lacrimation increased, mydriasis, photophobia. The most common adverse reactions of Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, Iightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of hydrocodone bitartrate, a semisynthetic opioid, may result in the following: Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Overdosage (10) ] Drug dependence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Increased intracranial pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Overdosage (10) ] Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Use of pseudoephedrine, a sympathomimetic amine, may result in the following: Central nervous system effects such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or convulsions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Cardiovascular system effects such as arrhythmias, or increased blood pressure, cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Use of chlorpheniramine, an antihistamine, may result in: Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] The most common adverse reactions of hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. Other adverse reactions include: Cardiovascular: Fast, or slow heartbeat, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, shock-like state, syncope. Respiratory: Dryness of the pharynx and respiratory passages, occasional tightness of the chest, laryngismus, wheezing, or troubled breathing. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting (more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients), constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric distress, and/or loss of appetite. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, urinary retention, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy. Dermatological System: Skin rash, pruritus, erythema, urticaria, excessive perspiration. Endocrine System: Changes in glucose utilization, decreased lactation, early menses, glycosuria, gynecomastia, hypoglycemia, increased appetite, increased libido, pheochromocytoma stimulation. Special Senses: labyrinthitis, tinnitus, vertigo, hypermetropia, lacrimation increased, mydriasis, photophobia. The most common adverse reactions of hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Tris Pharma, Inc. at 1-732-940-0358 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of hydrocodone bitartrate, a semisynthetic opioid, may result in the following: Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Overdosage (10)] Drug dependence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Increased intracranial pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Overdosage (10)] Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Use of pseudoephedrine, a sympathomimetic amine, may result in the following: Central nervous system effects such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or convulsions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Cardiovascular system effects such as arrhythmias, or increased blood pressure, cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Use of chlorpheniramine, an antihistamine, may result in: Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The most common adverse reactions of hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. Other adverse reactions include: Cardiovascular: Fast, or slow heartbeat, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, shock-like state, syncope. Respiratory: Dryness of the pharynx and respiratory passages, occasional tightness of the chest, laryngismus, wheezing, or troubled breathing. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting (more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients), constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric distress, and/or loss of appetite. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, urinary retention, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy. Dermatological System: Skin rash, pruritus, erythema, urticaria, excessive perspiration. Endocrine System: Changes in glucose utilization, decreased lactation, early menses, glycosuria, gynecomastia, hypoglycemia, increased appetite, increased libido, pheochromocytoma stimulation. Special Senses: Labyrinthitis, tinnitus, vertigo, hypermetropia, lacrimation increased, mydriasis, photophobia. The most common adverse reactions of hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Cypress Pharmaceutical, Inc. at tel: 1-800-793-2145 and www.cypressrx.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of hydrocodone bitartrate, a semisynthetic opioid, may result in the following: Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Overdosage (10)] Drug dependence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Increased intracranial pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Overdosage (10)] Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Use of pseudoephedrine, a sympathomimetic amine, may result in the following: Central nervous system effects such as insomnia, dizziness, weakness, tremor, or convulsions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Cardiovascular system effects such as arrhythmias, or increased blood pressure, cardiovascular collapse with accompanying hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Use of chlorpheniramine, an antihistamine, may result in: Decreased mental alertness with impaired mental and/or physical abilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The most common adverse reactions of ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. Other adverse reactions include: Cardiovascular: Fast, or slow heartbeat, hypertension, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, palpitations, shock-like state, syncope. Respiratory: Dryness of the pharynx and respiratory passages, occasional tightness of the chest, laryngismus, wheezing, or troubled breathing. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting (more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients), constipation, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric distress, and/or loss of appetite. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, urinary retention, dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy. Dermatological System: Skin rash, pruritus, erythema, urticaria, excessive perspiration. Endocrine System: Changes in glucose utilization, decreased lactation, early menses, glycosuria, gynecomastia, hypoglycemia, increased appetite, increased libido, pheochromocytoma stimulation. Special Senses: Labyrinthitis, tinnitus, vertigo, hypermetropia, lacrimation increased, mydriasis, photophobia. The most common adverse reactions of ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution include: Sedation, somnolence, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes, nervousness, or sleeplessness; blurred, double, or other visual disturbances; confusion, headache, euphoria, facial dyskinesia, feeling faint, lightheadedness, agitation, restlessness, insomnia, irritability, tremor. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hawthorn Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at tel: 1-800-793-2145 and www.hawthornrx.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interaction studies have not been conducted with TUZISTRA XR. -Opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants: May cause additive CNS depression. (7.1) -MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants: May increase the effect of either the antidepressant or codeine. (7.2) -Anticholinergic drugs: Use with caution. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockage (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur. (7.3) -Inhibitors or inducers of metabolic enzymes: Concomitant use of cytochrome P450 2D6 and 3A4 enzyme inhibitors or inducers may result in an altered response to codeine, monitor antitussive activity. Chlorpheniramine may inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin, monitor phenytoin toxicity. (7.4) 7.1 Opioids, Antihistamines, Antipsychotics, Anti-anxiety Agents, or Other CNS Depressants (Including Alcohol) The use of opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with TUZISTRA XR may cause an additive CNS depressant effect and should be avoided. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants Do not prescribe TUZISTRA XR if the patient is taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (i.e., certain drugs used for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping a MAOI drug. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with codeine preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or codeine. 7.3 Anticholinergic Drugs Codeine and chlorpheniramine should be administered cautiously to persons receiving other anticholinergic drugs in order to avoid paralytic ileus and excessive anticholinergic effects. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine. 7.4 Inhibitors or Inducers of Metabolic Enzymes Codeine is metabolized by the CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 isoenzymes [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The concurrent use of drugs that preferentially induce codeine N-demethylation (via CYP3A4) may increase the plasma concentrations of codeine's inactive metabolite norcodeine. Drugs that inhibit codeine O-demethylation (via CYP2D6) may decrease the plasma concentration of codeine's active metabolites, morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide. The contribution of these active metabolites to the overall antitussive effect of codeine is not known but should be considered. Adverse event reports in the literature suggest a possible drug interaction involving increased serum phenytoin levels and phenytoin toxicity when chlorpheniramine and phenytoin are co-administered. The exact mechanism for this interaction is not known, however it is believed that chlorpheniramine may inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin. Patients should be monitored for evidence of phenytoin toxicity such as ataxia, hyperreflexia, nystagmus and tremor when these two drugs are co-administered."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific interaction studies have been conducted with Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution. -Opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants: Avoid using with Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride; May cause additive CNS depression. (7.1) -MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants: Do not use. May increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone; may cause increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may occur. (7.2) -Anticholinergic drugs: Use with caution. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur. (7.3) 7.1 Opioids, Antihistamines, Antipsychotics, Anti-anxiety Agents, or Other CNS Depressants (Including Alcohol) The use of opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants concomitantly with Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution may cause an additive CNS depressant effect and should be avoided. 7.2 MAOIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants Do not prescribe Hydrocodone Bitartrate, Chlorpheniramine Maleate and Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride Oral Solution if the patient is taking a prescription MAOI (i.e., certain drugs used for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping a MAOI drug. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. An increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may also occur when pseudoephedrine containing preparations are used with MAOIs [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)]. 7.3 Anticholinergic Drugs Hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine should be administered cautiously to persons receiving other anticholinergic drugs in order to avoid paralytic ileus and excessive anticholinergic effects. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.6)]"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific interaction studies have been conducted with hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution. Opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants: Avoid using with hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution; May cause additive CNS depression. (7.1) MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants: Do not use. May increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone; may cause increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may occur. (7.2) Anticholinergic drugs: Use with caution. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur. (7.3) 7.1 Opioids, Antihistamines, Antipsychotics, Anti-anxiety Agents, or Other CNS Depressants (Including Alcohol) The use of opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution may cause an additive CNS depressant effect and should be avoided. 7.2 MAOIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants Do not prescribe hydrocodone bitartrate, chlorpheniramine maleate, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride oral solution if the patient is taking a prescription MAOI (i.e., certain drugs used for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping a MAOI drug. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. An increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may also occur when pseudoephedrine containing preparations are used with MAOIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 7.3 Anticholinergic Drugs Hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine should be administered cautiously to persons receiving other anticholinergic drugs in order to avoid paralytic ileus and excessive anticholinergic effects. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] ."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific interaction studies have been conducted with hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution. Opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants: Avoid using with hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution; May cause additive CNS depression. (7.1) MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants: Do not use. May increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone; may cause increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may occur. (7.2) Anticholinergic drugs: Use with caution. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur. (7.3) 7.1 Opioids, Antihistamines, Antipsychotics, Anti-anxiety Agents, or Other CNS Depressants (Including Alcohol) The use of opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution may cause an additive CNS depressant effect and should be avoided. 7.2 MAOIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants Do not prescribe hydrocodone bitartrate, pseudoephedrine HCl, and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution if the patient is taking a prescription MAOI (i.e., certain drugs used for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping a MAOI drug. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. An increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may also occur when pseudoephedrine containing preparations are used with MAOIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 7.3 Anticholinergic Drugs Hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine should be administered cautiously to persons receiving other anticholinergic drugs in order to avoid paralytic ileus and excessive anticholinergic effects. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific interaction studies have been conducted with Vituz Oral Solution. Opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants: Avoid use with Vituz; may cause additive CNS depression (7.1) MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants: Do not use. May increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone (7.2) Anticholinergic drugs: Use with caution. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur (7.3) 7.1 Opioids, Antihistamines, Antipsychotics, Anti-anxiety Agents, or Other CNS Depressants (Including Alcohol) The use of opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants concomitantly with Vituz Oral Solution may cause an additive CNS depressant effect and should be avoided. 7.2 MAOIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants Do not prescribe Vituz Oral Solution if the patient is taking a prescription MAOI (i.e., certain drugs used for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping a MAOI drug. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 7.3 Anticholinergic Drugs Hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine should be administered cautiously to persons receiving other anticholinergic drugs in order to avoid paralytic ileus and excessive anticholinergic effects. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific interaction studies have been conducted with ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution. Opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants: Avoid using with ZUTRIPRO(R); May cause additive CNS depression. (7.1) MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants: Do not use. May increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone; may cause increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may occur. (7.2) Anticholinergic drugs: Use with caution. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur. (7.3) 7.1 Opioids, Antihistamines, Antipsychotics, Anti-anxiety Agents, or Other CNS Depressants (Including Alcohol) The use of opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants concomitantly with ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution may cause an additive CNS depressant effect and should be avoided. 7.2 MAOIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants Do not prescribe ZUTRIPRO(R) Oral Solution if the patient is taking a prescription MAOI (i.e., certain drugs used for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping a MAOI drug. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. An increase in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis may also occur when pseudoephedrine containing preparations are used with MAOIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 7.3 Anticholinergic Drugs Hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine should be administered cautiously to persons receiving other anticholinergic drugs in order to avoid paralytic ileus and excessive anticholinergic effects. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants: Avoid use with hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate; may cause additive CNS depression ( 7.1 ) MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants: Do not use. May increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone ( 7.2 ) Anticholinergic drugs: Use with caution. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Opioids, Antihistamines, Antipsychotics, Anti-anxiety Agents, or Other CNS Depressants (Including Alcohol) The use of opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, anti-anxiety agents, or other CNS depressants concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution may cause an additive CNS depressant effect and should be avoided. 7.2 MAOIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants Do not prescribe hydrocodone bitartrate and chlorpheniramine maleate oral solution if the patient is taking a prescription MAOI (i.e., certain drugs used for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping a MAOI drug. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 7.3 Anticholinergic Drugs Hydrocodone and chlorpheniramine should be administered cautiously to persons receiving other anticholinergic drugs in order to avoid paralytic ileus and excessive anticholinergic effects. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]."$$
"Adverse Event Reporting: Serious side effects associated with the use of this product can be reported to the following address or by calling the following telephone number."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE ). Use of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE ). Use of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex extended-release oral suspension is a Schedule II narcotic. Psychic dependence, physical dependence and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of narcotics; therefore, hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension should be prescribed and administered with caution. However, psychic dependence is unlikely to develop when hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension is used for a short time for the treatment of cough. Physical dependence, the condition in which continued administration of the drug is required to prevent the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome, assumes clinically significant proportions only after several weeks of continued oral narcotic use, although some mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of narcotic therapy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see ). Use of hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. OVERDOSAGE Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex extended-release oral suspension is a Schedule II narcotic. Psychic dependence, physical dependence and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration of narcotics; therefore, hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension should be prescribed and administered with caution. However, psychic dependence is unlikely to develop when hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension is used for a short time for the treatment of cough. Physical dependence, the condition in which continued administration of the drug is required to prevent the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome, assumes clinically significant proportions only after several weeks of continued oral narcotic use, although some mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of narcotic therapy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders: Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Death. Nervous System Disorders: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Gastrointestinal Disorders: Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Death Nervous System Disorders: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Rash, pruritus.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see ). Use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. OVERDOSAGE Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE ). Use of TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of TussiCaps(R) in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may produce constipation. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Death Nervous System Disorders Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Renal and Urinary Disorders Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dryness of the pharynx, occasional tightness of the chest, and respiratory depression (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Phenylephrine HCl Codeine Nervous System - CNS depression, particularly respiratory depression, and to a lesser extent circulatory depression; light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, euphoria, dysphoria, headache, transient hallucination, disorientation, visual disturbances, and convulsions. Cardiovascular - Tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, orthostatic hypotension (common to narcotic analgesics). Gastrointestinal - Nausea, vomiting, constipation, and biliary tract spasm. Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis may experience increased colonic motility; in patients with acute ulcerative colitis, toxic dilation has been reported. Genitourinary - Oliguria, urinary retention, antidiuretic effect has been reported (common to narcotic analgesics). Allergic - Infrequent pruritus, giant urticaria, angioneurotic edema, and laryngeal edema. Other - Flushing of the face, sweating and pruritus (due to opiate-induced histamine release); weakness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Pseudoephedrine may cause mild central nervous system stimulation, especially in those patients who are hypersensitive to sympathomimetic drugs. Nervousness, excitability, restlessness, dizziness, weakness and insomnia may also occur. Headache and drowsiness have also been reported. Large doses may cause lightheadedness, nausea and/or vomiting. Sympathomimetics have been associated with certain untoward reactions including fear, anxiety, nervousness, restlessness, tremor, weakness, pallor, respiratory difficulty, dysuria, insomnia, hallucinations, convulsions, CNS depression, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension. Adverse effects associated with dextromethorphan are generally infrequent and mild. Products containing dextromethorphan have been associated with nausea, dizziness, fatigue, gastrointestinal disturbances, and skin eruptions. Chlorpheniramine may cause slight to moderate drowsiness and is the most frequent side effect. Other possible side effects of antihistamines include: General: Urticaria, drug rash, anaphylactic shock, photosensitivity, excessive perspiration, chills, dryness of mouth, nose and throat; Cardiovascular: Hypotension, headache, palpitation, tachycardia, extra systoles; Hematological: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis; CNS: Sedation, dizziness, disturbed coordination, fatigue, confusion, restlessness, excitation, nervousness, tremor, irritability, insomnia, euphoria, paresthesia, blurred vision, diplopia, vertigo, tinnitus, hysteria, neuritis, convulsion; Gastrointestinal: Epigastric distress, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation; Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, difficult urination, urinary retention, early menses; Respiratory: Thickening of bronchial secretions, tightness of chest, wheezing and nasal stuffiness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Pyrilamine Maleate and Chlorpheniramine Maleate: Chlorpheniramine maleate may cause slight to moderate drowsiness relatively infrequently. Other possible side effects of antihistamines in general include: urticaria, drug rash, anaphylactic shock, photosensitivity, excessive perspiration, chills, dryness or the mouth, nose and throat; cardiovascular effects (hypotension, headache, palpitation, tachycardia, extrasystoles); hematological effects (hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis); CNS disturbances (sedation, dizziness, disturbed coordination, fatigue, confusion, restlessness, excitation, nervousness, tremor, irritability, insomnia, euphoria, paresthesias, blurred vision, diplopia, vertigo, tinnitus, acute labyrinthitis, hysteria, neuritis, convulsions); gastrointestinal effects (epigastric distress, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation); genitourinary effects (urinary frequency, difficult urination, urinary retention, early menses) and respiratory effects (thickening of bronchial secretions, tightness of the chest, wheezing and nasal stuffiness). Phenylephrine Hydrochloride: Hyper-reactive individuals may display ephedrine-like reactions such as tachycardia, palpitations, headache, dizziness, or nausea. Sympathomimetic amines have been associated with certain untoward reactions including fear, anxiety, nervousness, restlessness, tremor, weakness, pallor, respiratory difficulty, dysuria, insomnia, hallucinations, convulsions, CNS depression, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension. Phenylephrine may cause precordial pain, respiratory distress, tremor, weakness, hypertension, restlessness, anxiety, nervousness and dizziness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following adverse reactions have been observed with the use of chlorpheniramine and scopolamine methyl nitrate; Arrhytmias, blood dyscrasias, CNS depression, CNS stimulation, dizziness, drowsiness, dryness of mouth, hallucinations, hypotension, hypertension, increased sweating, loss of appetite, paradoxical reaction, restlessness, skin rash, stomach upset or pain, thickening of mucus, tingling in hands or feet, trembling, troubled breathing, unusual tiredness or weakness, vomiting. Note: Agitation; confusion; difficult or painful urination; drowsiness; dizziness; and dryness of mouth, nose and throat are more likely to occur in the elderly. Nightmares, unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability are more likely to occur in children and the elderly. When anticholinergics are given to patients, especially children, where the environmental temperature is high, there is risk of a rapid increase in body temperature."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following adverse reactions have been observed with the use of pseudoephedrine, chlorpheniramine and methscopolamine; Arrhythmias, blood dyscrasias, CNS depression, CNS stimulation, dizziness, drowsiness, dryness of mouth, hallucinations, hypotension, hypertension, increased sweating, loss of appetite, paradoxical reaction, restlessness, skin rash, stomach upset or pain, thickening of mucus, tingling in hands or feet, trembling, troubled breathing, unusual tiredness or weakness, vomiting. Note: Agitation; confusion; difficult or painful urination; drowsiness; dizziness; and dryness of mouth, nose and throat are more likely to occur in the elderly. Nightmares, unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability are more likely to occur in children and the elderly. When anticholinergics are given to patients, especially children, where the environmental temperature is high, there is risk of a rapid increase in body temperature."$$
"Drug Interactions: Do not take this product if you are presently taking, or have taken within the preceding two weeks, a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression without first consulting your physician. Absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with anticholinergics due to decreased gastrointestinal motility and delayed gastric emptying. Combinations containing any of the following medications, depending on the amount present, may also interact with this product: - Alkalizers, such as: calcium and/or magnesium-containing antacids; Carbonic inhibitors; citrates; sodium bicarbonate-urinary excretion of anticholinergics may be delayed by alkalization of the urine, thus potentiating scopolamine methyl nitrate therapeutic and/or side effects. - Antacids or adsorbent antidiarrheals-simultaneous use of these medications may reduce absorption of scopolamine methyl nitrate, resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness; doses of these should be spaced 2 or 3 hours apart from doses of scopolamine methyl nitrate. - Anticholinergics - Concurrent use with anticholinergic effects; patients should be advised to report occurrence of gastrointestinal problems promptly since paralytic ileus may occur with concurrent therapy. - CNS Depressants - Concurrent use of alcohol, antihistamines with alcohol, tricyclic antidepressants, barbiturates and other CNS depressants may have an additive effect. - Ketoconazole - Anticholinergics may increase gastrointestinal pH, possibly resulting in a marked reduction in ketoconazole absorption during concurrent use with anticholinergics; patients should be advised to take these medications at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. - MAO inhibitors - Concurrent use may prolong and intensify cardiac stimulate and vasopressor effects of chlorpheniramine, resulting in headache, cardiac arrhythmias, vomiting or sudden and severe hypertensive and/or hyperpyretic crisis. These medications should not be administered during or within 14 days following the administration of MAO inhibitor therapy. - Metoclopramide - Concurrent use of metoclopramide with anticholinergics may antagonize metoclopramide's effects on gastrointestinal motility. - Potassium chloride - Concurrent use with anticholinergics may increase the severity of potassium chloride-induced gastrointestinal lesions."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not use if you are taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), (Certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinsons disease) or for 2 weeks after stopping that MAOI drug, if you are uncertain whether your prescription drug contains an MAOI, consult a health professional before taking this product"$$
"Drug Interactions MAOI and tricyclic antidepressants may prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines. Beta-adrenergic blockers and MAOI may potentiate the pressor effect of pseudoephedrine. Concurrent use of digitalis glycosides may increase the possibility of cardiac arrhythmias. Sympathomimetics may reduce the hypotensive effects of guanethidine, mecamylamine, methyldopa, reserpine and veratrum alkaloids. Concurrent use of tricyclic antidepressants may antagonize the effects of pseudoephedrine. Concomitant use of antihistamines with alcohol, tricyclic antidepressants, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants may have an additive effect."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistaminics, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex ER oral suspension may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistaminics, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus."$$
"Drug Interactions: Patients receiving narcotics, antihistaminics, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Oral Suspension may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistaminics, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistaminics, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with TUSSIONEX Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus."$$
"Interactions Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with TussiCaps(R) extended-release capsules may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. The concurrent use of other anticholinergics with hydrocodone may produce paralytic ileus.",$$
