"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS), such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients, Edarbyclor can cause excessive hypotension. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of Edarbyclor (5.2) -In patients with renal artery stenosis, Edarbyclor may cause renal failure (5.3) -Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment. Consider discontinuing Edarbyclor with progressive renal impairment (5.3) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Azilsartanmedoxomil Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Edarbyclor as soon as possible [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Chlorthalidone Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice and thrombocytopenia. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with Edarbyclor. Such patients are probably not good candidates to start therapy with more than one drug; therefore, correct volume prior to administration of Edarbyclor. If hypotension does occur, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, given an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Edarbyclor Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment. Consider withholding or discontinuing Edarbyclor if progressive renal impairment becomes evident. Azilsartanmedoxomil As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Edarbyclor. In patients whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure, renal artery stenosis, or volume depletion), treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers has been associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Edarbyclor [see Drug Interactions (7), Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen have been reported. There has been no long-term use of azilsartan medoxomil in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results are expected. Chlorthalidone In patients with renal disease, chlorthalidone may precipitate azotemia. If progressive renal impairment becomes evident, as indicated by increased blood urea nitrogen, consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy. 5.4 Hypokalemia Chlorthalidone Hypokalemia is a dose-dependent adverse reaction that may develop with chlorthalidone. Co-administration of digitalis may exacerbate the adverse effects of hypokalemia. Edarbyclor attenuates chlorthalidone-associated hypokalemia. In patients with normal potassium levels at baseline, 1.7% of Edarbyclor-treated patients, 0.9% of azilsartan medoxomil-treated patients, and 13.4% of chlorthalidone-treated patients shifted to low potassium values (less than 3.4 mmol/L). 5.5 Hyperuricemia Chlorthalidone Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving chlorthalidone or other thiazide diuretics."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS), such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients, Edarbyclor can cause excessive hypotension. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of Edarbyclor (5.2) In patients with renal artery stenosis, Edarbyclor may cause renal failure (5.3) Monitor renal function in patients with renal impairment. Consider discontinuing Edarbyclor with progressive renal impairment (5.3) Monitor serum electrolytes periodically (5.4) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Azilsartan medoxomil Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Edarbyclor as soon as possible [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Chlorthalidone Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice and thrombocytopenia. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with Edarbyclor. Such patients are probably not good candidates to start therapy with more than one drug; therefore, correct volume prior to administration of Edarbyclor. If hypotension does occur, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, given an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Edarbyclor Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment. Consider withholding or discontinuing Edarbyclor if progressive renal impairment becomes evident. Azilsartan medoxomil As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Edarbyclor. In patients whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure, renal artery stenosis, or volume depletion), treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers has been associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Edarbyclor [see Drug Interactions (7), Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen have been reported. There has been no long-term use of azilsartan medoxomil in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results are expected. Chlorthalidone In patients with renal disease, chlorthalidone may precipitate azotemia. If progressive renal impairment becomes evident, as indicated by increased blood urea nitrogen, consider withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy. 5.4 Serum Electrolyte Imbalances Thiazide diuretics can cause hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Drugs that inhibit the renin angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia. Hypokalemia is a dose-dependent adverse reaction that may develop with chlorthalidone. Co-administration of digitalis may exacerbate the adverse effects of hypokalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically. Edarbyclor attenuates chlorthalidone-associated hypokalemia. In patients with normal potassium levels at baseline, 1.7% of Edarbyclor-treated patients, 0.9% of azilsartan medoxomil-treated patients, and 13.4% of chlorthalidone-treated patients shifted to low potassium values (less than 3.4 mmol/L). 5.5 Hyperuricemia Chlorthalidone Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving chlorthalidone or other thiazide diuretics."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following potential adverse reactions with Edarbyclor, azilsartan medoxomil, or chlorthalidone and similar agents are included in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label: Fetal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Impaired Renal Function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypokalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hyperuricemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2%) are dizziness and fatigue (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Arbor Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-866-516-4950 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Edarbyclor has been evaluated for safety in more than 3900 patients with hypertension; more than 700 patients were treated for at least 6 months and more than 280 for at least 1 year. Adverse reactions have generally been mild and transient in nature. Common adverse reactions that occurred in the 8-week factorial design trial in at least 2% of Edarbyclor-treated patients and greater than azilsartan medoxomil or chlorthalidone are presented in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of >=2% of Edarbyclor-treated Patients and > Azilsartan medoxomil or Chlorthalidone Preferred Term Azilsartan medoxomil 20, 40, 80 mg (N=470) Chlorthalidone 12.5, 25 mg (N=316) Edarbyclor 40 / 12.5, 40 / 25 mg (N=302) Dizziness 1.7% 1.9% 8.9% Fatigue 0.6% 1.3% 2.0% Hypotension and syncope were reported in 1.7% and 0.3%, respectively, of patients treated with Edarbyclor. Study discontinuation because of adverse reactions occurred in 8.3% of patients treated with the recommended doses of Edarbyclor compared with 3.2% of patients treated with azilsartan medoxomil and 3.2% of patients treated with chlorthalidone. The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Edarbyclor were serum creatinine increased (3.6%) and dizziness (2.3%). The adverse reaction profile obtained from 52 weeks of open-label combination therapy with azilsartan medoxomil plus chlorthalidone or Edarbyclor was similar to that observed during the double-blind, active controlled trials. In 3 double-blind, active controlled, titration studies, in which Edarbyclor was titrated to higher doses in a step-wise manner, adverse reactions and discontinuations for adverse events were less frequent than in the fixed-dose factorial trial. Azilsartan medoxomil A total of 4814 patients were evaluated for safety when treated with azilsartan medoxomil at doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg in clinical trials. This includes 1704 patients treated for at least 6 months, of these, 588 were treated for at least 1 year. Generally, adverse reactions were mild, not dose related and similar regardless of age, gender and race. Adverse reactions with a plausible relationship to treatment that have been reported with an incidence of >=0.3% and greater than placebo in more than 3300 patients treated with azilsartan medoxomil in controlled trials are listed below: Gastrointestinal Disorders: diarrhea, nausea General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: asthenia, fatigue Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: muscle spasm Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, dizziness postural Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: cough Chlorthalidone The following adverse reactions have been observed in clinical trials of chlorthalidone: rash, headache, dizziness, GI upset, and elevations of uric acid and cholesterol. Clinical Laboratory Findings with Edarbyclor In the factorial design trial, clinically relevant changes in standard laboratory parameters were uncommon with administration of the recommended doses of Edarbyclor. Renal parameters: Increased blood creatinine is a known pharmacologic effect of renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) blockers, such as ARBs and ACE inhibitors, and is related to the magnitude of blood pressure reduction. The incidence of consecutive increases of creatinine >=50% from baseline and >ULN was 2.0% in patients treated with the recommended doses of Edarbyclor compared with 0.4% and 0.3% with azilsartan medoxomil and chlorthalidone, respectively. Elevations of creatinine were typically transient, or non-progressive and reversible, and associated with large blood pressure reductions. Mean increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were observed with Edarbyclor (5.3 mg/dL) compared with azilsartan medoxomil (1.5 mg/dL) and with chlorthalidone (2.5 mg/dL). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of EDARBYCLOR. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nausea Rash Pruritus Angioedema"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following potential adverse reactions with Edarbyclor, azilsartan medoxomil, or chlorthalidone and similar agents are included in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label: -Fetal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Impaired Renal Function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Hypokalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Hyperuricemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2%) are dizziness and fatigue (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Edarbyclor has been evaluated for safety in more than 3900 patients with hypertension; more than 700 patients were treated for at least 6 months and more than 280 for at least 1 year. Adverse reactions have generally been mild and transient in nature. Common adverse reactions that occurred in the 8-week factorial design trial in at least 2% of Edarbyclor-treated patients and greater than azilsartan medoxomil or chlorthalidone are presented in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of >=2% of Edarbyclor-treated Patients and > Azilsartan medoxomil or Chlorthalidone Preferred Term Azilsartanmedoxomil 20, 40, 80 mg (N=470) Chlorthalidone 12.5, 25 mg (N=316) Edarbyclor 40 / 12.5, 40 / 25 mg (N=302) Dizziness 1.7% 1.9% 8.9% Fatigue 0.6% 1.3% 2.0% Hypotension and syncope were reported in 1.7% and 0.3%, respectively, of patients treated with Edarbyclor. Study discontinuation because of adverse reactions occurred in 8.3% of patients treated with the recommended doses of Edarbyclor compared with 3.2% of patients treated with azilsartan medoxomil and 3.2% of patients treated with chlorthalidone. The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with Edarbyclor were serum creatinine increased (3.6%) and dizziness (2.3%). The adverse reaction profile obtained from 52 weeks of open-label combination therapy with azilsartan medoxomil plus chlorthalidone or Edarbyclor was similar to that observed during the double-blind, active controlled trials. In 3 double-blind, active controlled, titration studies, in which Edarbyclor was titrated to higher doses in a step-wise manner, adverse reactions and discontinuations for adverse events were less frequent than in the fixed-dose factorial trial. Azilsartanmedoxomil A total of 4814 patients were evaluated for safety when treated with azilsartan medoxomil at doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg in clinical trials. This includes 1704 patients treated for at least 6 months, of these, 588 were treated for at least 1 year. Generally, adverse reactions were mild, not dose related and similar regardless of age, gender and race. Adverse reactions with a plausible relationship to treatment that have been reported with an incidence of >=0.3% and greater than placebo in more than 3300 patients treated with azilsartan medoxomil in controlled trials are listed below: Gastrointestinal Disorders: diarrhea, nausea General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: asthenia, fatigue Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: muscle spasm Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, dizziness postural Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: cough Chlorthalidone The following adverse reactions have been observed in clinical trials of chlorthalidone: rash, headache, dizziness, GI upset, and elevations of uric acid and cholesterol. Clinical Laboratory Findings with Edarbyclor In the factorial design trial, clinically relevant changes in standard laboratory parameters were uncommon with administration of the recommended doses of Edarbyclor. Renal parameters: Increased blood creatinine is a known pharmacologic effect of renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) blockers, such as ARBs and ACE inhibitors, and is related to the magnitude of blood pressure reduction. The incidence of consecutive increases of creatinine >=50% from baseline and >ULN was 2.0% in patients treated with the recommended doses of Edarbyclor compared with 0.4% and 0.3% with azilsartan medoxomil and chlorthalidone, respectively. Elevations of creatinine were typically transient, or non-progressive and reversible, and associated with large blood pressure reductions. Mean increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were observed with Edarbyclor (5.3 mg/dL) compared with azilsartan medoxomil (1.5 mg/dL) and with chlorthalidone (2.5 mg/dL)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Edarbyclor The pharmacokinetics of azilsartan medoxomil and chlorthalidone are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with other drugs and Edarbyclor, although studies have been conducted with azilsartan medoxomil and chlorthalidone. Azilsartanmedoxomil No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed in studies of azilsartan medoxomil or azilsartan given with amlodipine, antacids, chlorthalidone, digoxin, fluconazole, glyburide, ketoconazole, metformin, pioglitazone, and warfarin. Therefore, azilsartan medoxomil may be used concomitantly with these medications. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or who have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including azilsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving Edarbyclor and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of Edarbyclor may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Edarbyclor and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with Edarbyclor in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Edarbyclor in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Chlorthalidone Lithium renal clearance is reduced by diuretics, such as chlorthalidone, increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Consider monitoring lithium levels when using Edarbyclor. -Renal clearance of lithium is reduced by diuretics, such as chlorthalidone increasing the risk of lithium toxicity (7) -NSAIDS increase risk of renal dysfunction and interfere with antihypertensive effect (7) -Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Renal clearance of lithium is reduced by diuretics, such as chlorthalidone increasing the risk of lithium toxicity (7) NSAIDS increase risk of renal dysfunction and interfere with antihypertensive effect (7) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7) Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity (7) Edarbyclor The pharmacokinetics of azilsartan medoxomil and chlorthalidone are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with other drugs and Edarbyclor, although studies have been conducted with azilsartan medoxomil and chlorthalidone. Azilsartan medoxomil No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed in studies of azilsartan medoxomil or azilsartan given with amlodipine, antacids, chlorthalidone, digoxin, fluconazole, glyburide, ketoconazole, metformin, pioglitazone, and warfarin. Therefore, azilsartan medoxomil may be used concomitantly with these medications. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or who have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including azilsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving Edarbyclor and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of Edarbyclor may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Edarbyclor and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with Edarbyclor in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Edarbyclor in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Chlorthalidone Lithium renal clearance is reduced by diuretics, such as chlorthalidone, increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Consider monitoring lithium levels when using Edarbyclor. Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor agonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone is usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (U.S. studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total Volunteered and Elicited (U.S. Studies) (Foreign + U.S. Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n = 164) (n = 206) (n = 399) (n = 407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During post-marketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbances, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol and chlorthalidone, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis. CNS: vertigo, paresthesias, xanthopsia. Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia. Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) (cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis). Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects. Potential Adverse Effects In addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed in clinical trials with atenolol but reported with other beta-adrenergic blocking agents should be considered potential adverse effects of atenolol. Nervous System: Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. Cardiovascular: Intensification of AV block (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Gastrointestinal: Mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis. Allergic: Erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat, laryngospasm and respiratory distress. Miscellaneous: There have been reports of skin rashes and/or dry eyes associated with the use of beta-adrenergic blocking drugs. The reported incidence is small, and, in most cases, the symptoms have cleared when treatment was withdrawn. Discontinuance of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable. Patients should be closely monitored following cessation of therapy. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta-blocker practolol has not been reported with atenolol. Furthermore, a number of patients who had previously demonstrated established practolol reactions were transferred to atenolol therapy with subsequent resolution or quiescence of the reaction. Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with the administration of atenolol and chlorthalidone. The changes in laboratory parameters were not progressive and usually were not associated with clinical manifestations. The most common changes were increases in uric acid and decreases in serum potassium."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone is usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered (US Studies) Total-Volunteered and Elicited (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol (n = 164) % Placebo (n = 206) % Atenolol (n = 399) % Placebo (n = 407) % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS ) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome, and dry mouth. Atenolol and chlorthalidone, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome, and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis; CNS: vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia; Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) (cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis); Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone is usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (U.S. studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total Volunteered and Elicited (U.S. Studies) (Foreign + U.S. Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n = 164) (n = 206) (n = 399) (n = 407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During post-marketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbances, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol and chlorthalidone, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis. CNS: vertigo, paresthesias, xanthopsia. Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia. Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) (cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis). Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects. In addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed in clinical trials with atenolol but reported with other beta-adrenergic blocking agents should be considered potential adverse effects of atenolol. Nervous System: Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. Cardiovascular: Intensification of AV block (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Gastrointestinal: Mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis. Allergic: Erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat, laryngospasm and respiratory distress. Miscellaneous: There have been reports of skin rashes and/or dry eyes associated with the use of beta-adrenergic blocking drugs. The reported incidence is small, and, in most cases, the symptoms have cleared when treatment was withdrawn. Discontinuance of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable. Patients should be closely monitored following cessation of therapy. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta-blocker practolol has not been reported with atenolol. Furthermore, a number of patients who had previously demonstrated established practolol reactions were transferred to atenolol therapy with subsequent resolution or quiescence of the reaction. Clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with the administration of atenolol and chlorthalidone. The changes in laboratory parameters were not progressive and usually were not associated with clinical manifestations. The most common changes were increases in uric acid and decreases in serum potassium."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total-Volunteered and Elicited (US Studies) (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n=164) (n=206) (n=399) (n=407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS ) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intra\\302\\255hepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis; CNS: vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia; Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) [cutaneous vasculitis], Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis); Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total-Volunteered and Elicited (US Studies) (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n=164) (n=206) (n=399) (n=407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS ) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intra\\302\\255hepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis; CNS: vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia; Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) [cutaneous vasculitis], Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis); Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or h ttp://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total-Volunteered and Elicited (US Studies) (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n=164) (n=206) (n=399) (n=407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS ) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: Orthostatic hypotension. Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis. CNS: Vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia. Hematologic: Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia. Hypersensitivity: Purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) [cutaneous vasculitis], Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis). Miscellaneous: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total-Volunteered and Elicited (US Studies) (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n=164) (n=206) (n=399) (n=407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: Orthostatic hypotension. Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis. CNS: Vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia. Hematologic: Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia. Hypersensitivity: Purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) [cutaneous vasculitis], Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis). Miscellaneous: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total-Volunteered and Elicited (US Studies) (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n=164) (n=206) (n=399) (n=407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intra-hepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis; CNS: vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia; Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) [cutaneous vasculitis], Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis); Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or h ttp://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for atenolol and chlorthalidone are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, e.g., by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered Total-Volunteered and Elicited (US Studies) (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol Placebo Atenolol Placebo (n=164) (n=206) (n=399) (n=407) % % % % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS ) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome and dry mouth. Atenolol, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome and Raynaud's phenomenon. Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intra\\302\\255hepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis; CNS: vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia; Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) [cutaneous vasculitis], Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis); Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of atenolol and chlorthalidone conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS CLORPRES(R) is generally well tolerated. Most adverse effects are mild and tend to diminish with continued therapy. The most frequent (which appear to be dose-related) are dry mouth, occurring in about 40 of 100 patients; drowsiness, about 33 in 100; dizziness, about 16 in 100; constipation and sedation, each about 10 in 100. In addition to the reactions listed above, certain less frequent adverse experiences, which are shown below, have also been reported in patients receiving the component drugs of CLORPRES(R) but in many cases patients were receiving concomitant medication and a causal relationship has not been established: Clonidine Hydrochloride Gastrointestinal: Nausea and vomiting, about 5 in 100 patients; anorexia and malaise, each about 1 in 100; mild transient abnormalities in liver function tests, about 1 in 100; rare reports of hepatitis; parotitis, rarely. Metabolic: Weight gain, about 1 in 100 patients; gynecomastia, about 1 in 1000, transient elevation of blood glucose or serum creatine phosphokinase, rarely. Central Nervous System: Nervousness and agitation, about 3 in 100 patients; mental depression, about 1 in 100; headache, about 1 in 100; insomnia, about 5 in 1000. Vivid dreams or nightmares, other behavioral changes, restlessness, anxiety, visual and auditory hallucinations and delirium have been reported. Cardiovascular: Orthostatic symptoms, about 3 in 100 patients; palpitations and tachycardia, and bradycardia, each about 5 in 1000. Raynaud's phenomenon, congestive heart failure, and electrocardiographic abnormalities, i.e., conduction disturbances and arrhythmias, have been reported rarely. Rare cases of sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block have been reported, both with and without the use of concomitant digitalis. Dermatological: Rash, about 1 in 100 patients; pruritus, about 7 in 1000; hives, angioneurotic edema and urticaria, about 5 in 1000, alopecia, about 2 in 1000. Genitourinary: Decreased sexual activity, impotence and loss of libido, about 3 in 100 patients; nocturia, about 1 in 100; difficulty in micturition, about 2 in 1000; urinary retention, about 1 in 1000. Other: Weakness, about 10 in 100 patients; fatigue, about 4 in 100; discontinuation syndrome, about 1 in 100; muscle or joint pain, about 6 in 1000 and cramps of the lower limbs, about 3 in 1000. Dryness, burning of the eyes, blurred vision, dryness of the nasal mucosa, pallor, weakly positive Coombs' test, increased sensitivity to alcohol and fever have been reported. Chlorthalidone Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, gastric irritation, nausea, vomiting, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis. Central Nervous System: Dizziness, vertigo, paresthesias, headache, xanthopsia. Hematologic: Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia. Dermatologic-Hypersensitivity: Purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) (cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis). Cardiovascular: Orthostatic hypotension may occur and may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates or narcotics. Other Adverse Reactions: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness, impotence. Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe, chlorthalidone dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS TENORETIC is usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for TENORETIC are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, eg, by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered (US Studies) Total \\342\\210\\222 Volunteered and Elicited (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol (n=164) % Placebo (n=206) % Atenolol (n=399) % Placebo (n=407) % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome, and dry mouth. TENORETIC, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome, and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis; CNS: vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia; Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) (cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis); Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of TENORETIC conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with TENORETIC) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects. POTENTIAL ADVERSE EFFECTS In addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed in clinical trials with atenolol but reported with other beta-adrenergic blocking agents should be considered potential adverse effects of atenolol. Nervous System: Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, decreased performance on neuropsychometrics; Cardiovascular: Intensification of AV block (see CONTRAINDICATIONS); Gastrointestinal: Mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis; Hematologic: Agranulocytosis; Allergic: Erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat, laryngospasm and respiratory distress. Miscellaneous There have been reports of skin rashes and/or dry eyes associated with the use of beta-adrenergic blocking drugs. The reported incidence is small, and, in most cases, the symptoms have cleared when treatment was withdrawn. Discontinuance of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable. Patients should be closely monitored following cessation of therapy. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta blocker practolol has not been reported with atenolol (TENORMIN). Furthermore, a number of patients who had previously demonstrated established practolol reactions were transferred to atenolol (TENORMIN) therapy with subsequent resolution or quiescence of the reaction. Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with the administration of TENORETIC. The changes in laboratory parameters were not progressive and usually were not associated with clinical manifestations. The most common changes were increases in uric acid and decreases in serum potassium."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS TENORETIC is usually well tolerated in properly selected patients. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. The adverse effects observed for TENORETIC are essentially the same as those seen with the individual components. Atenolol The frequency estimates in the following table were derived from controlled studies in which adverse reactions were either volunteered by the patient (US studies) or elicited, eg, by checklist (foreign studies). The reported frequency of elicited adverse effects was higher for both atenolol and placebo-treated patients than when these reactions were volunteered. Where frequency of adverse effects for atenolol and placebo is similar, causal relationship to atenolol is uncertain. Volunteered (US Studies) Total \\342\\210\\222 Volunteered and Elicited (Foreign + US Studies) Atenolol (n = 164) % Placebo (n = 206) % Atenolol (n = 399) % Placebo (n = 407) % CARDIOVASCULAR Bradycardia 3 0 3 0 Cold Extremities 0 0.5 12 5 Postural Hypotension 2 1 4 5 Leg Pain 0 0.5 3 1 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM/ NEUROMUSCULAR Dizziness 4 1 13 6 Vertigo 2 0.5 2 0.2 Light-Headedness 1 0 3 0.7 Tiredness 0.6 0.5 26 13 Fatigue 3 1 6 5 Lethargy 1 0 3 0.7 Drowsiness 0.6 0 2 0.5 Depression 0.6 0.5 12 9 Dreaming 0 0 3 1 GASTROINTESTINAL Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 Nausea 4 1 3 1 RESPIRATORY (see WARNINGS) Wheeziness 0 0 3 3 Dyspnea 0.6 1 6 4 During postmarketing experience, the following have been reported in temporal relationship to the use of the drug: elevated liver enzymes and/or bilirubin, hallucinations, headache, impotence, Peyronie's disease, postural hypotension which may be associated with syncope, psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis, psychoses, purpura, reversible alopecia, thrombocytopenia, visual disturbance, sick sinus syndrome, and dry mouth. TENORETIC, like other beta blockers, has been associated with the development of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), lupus syndrome, and Raynaud's phenomenon. Chlorthalidone Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, gastric irritation, vomiting, cramping, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis; CNS: vertigo, paresthesia, xanthopsia; Hematologic: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis) (cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis); Miscellaneous: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness. Clinical trials of TENORETIC conducted in the United States (89 patients treated with TENORETIC) revealed no new or unexpected adverse effects. POTENTIAL ADVERSE EFFECTS In addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed in clinical trials with atenolol but reported with other beta-adrenergic blocking agents should be considered potential adverse effects of atenolol. Nervous System: Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, decreased performance on neuropsychometrics; Cardiovascular: Intensification of AV block (see CONTRAINDICATIONS); Gastrointestinal: Mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis; Hematologic: Agranulocytosis; Allergic: Erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat, laryngospasm and respiratory distress. Miscellaneous There have been reports of skin rashes and/or dry eyes associated with the use of beta-adrenergic blocking drugs. The reported incidence is small, and, in most cases, the symptoms have cleared when treatment was withdrawn. Discontinuance of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable. Patients should be closely monitored following cessation of therapy. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta blocker practolol has not been reported with atenolol (TENORMIN). Furthermore, a number of patients who had previously demonstrated established practolol reactions were transferred to atenolol (TENORMIN) therapy with subsequent resolution or quiescence of the reaction. Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with the administration of TENORETIC. The changes in laboratory parameters were not progressive and usually were not associated with clinical manifestations. The most common changes were increases in uric acid and decreases in serum potassium.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed, but there is not enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency. Gastrointestinal System Reactions: anorexia, gastric irritation, nausea, vomiting, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis. Central Nervous System Reactions: dizziness, vertigo, paresthesias, headache, xanthopsia. Hematologic Reactions: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia. Dermatologic-Hypersensitivity Reactions: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis)(cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis). Cardiovascular Reaction: Orthostatic hypotension may occur and may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates or narcotics. Other Adverse Reactions: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness, impotence. Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe, chlorthalidone dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed, but there is not enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency. Gastrointestinal System Reactions: anorexia, gastric irritation, nausea, vomiting, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), pancreatitis. Central Nervous System Reactions: dizziness, vertigo, paresthesias, headache, xanthopsia. Hematologic Reactions: leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia. Dermatologic-Hypersensitivity Reactions: purpura, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis), Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis). Cardiovascular Reactions: orthostatic hypotension may occur and may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics. Other Adverse Reactions: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia, muscle spasm, weakness, restlessness, impotence. Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe, chlorthalidone dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn."$$
"Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone (see WARNINGS). Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with beta-blockers. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta-blockers. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta-blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone. Beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta-blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia."$$
"Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone. (See WARNINGS .) Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with beta blockers. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta blockers. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone. Beta blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia."$$
"Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone. (See WARNINGS .) Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with beta blockers. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta blockers. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone. Beta blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia."$$
"Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone. (See WARNINGS.) Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with beta blockers. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta blockers. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone. Beta blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia."$$
"Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone. (See WARNINGS .) Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone. Beta blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction."$$
"Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone. (See WARNINGS.) Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone. Beta blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction."$$
"Drug Interactions Chlorthalidone may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. Potentiation occurs with ganglionic peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs. Medication such as digitalis may also influence serum electrolytes. Warning signs, irrespective of cause, are: dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pains or cramps, muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting. Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased, decreased, or unchanged. Higher dosage of oral hypoglycemic agents may be required. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during chlorthalidone administration. Chlorthalidone and related drugs may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Chlorthalidone and related drugs may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use."$$
"Drug Interactions If a patient receiving clonidine hydrochloride is also taking tricyclic antidepressants, the effect of clonidine may be reduced, thus necessitating an increase in dosage. Clonidine hydrochloride may enhance the CNS-depressive effects of alcohol, barbiturates or other sedatives. Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats (see Ocular Toxicity).",$$
"Drug Interactions TENORETIC may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with TENORETIC plus a catecholamine depletor (eg, reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with TENORETIC. (See WARNINGS.) Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with beta blockers. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta blockers. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, eg, indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with TENORETIC. Beta blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia."$$
