"4. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride and Clidinium Bromide Capsules may produce drowsiness and blurred vision. The patient should be warned about engaging in hazardous work or activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery. Use caution when prescribing Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride and Clidinium Bromide Capsules concurrently with psychotropic agents, especially those that include MAQ exhibitors and phenothiazines. Patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed, along with patients being treated for anxiety or depression. Paradoxical reactions to Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride, e.g., excitement, stimulation and acute rage, have been reported in psychiatric patients and should be considered during Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride and clidinium Bromide Capsule therapy."$$
"5. ADVERSE REACTIONS When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been used alone, drowsiness, ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients, particularly the elderly and debilitated. These effects can be avoided in almost all instances by adjsuting the dosage, and have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges. In a few instances syncope has been reported. Also reported are isolated instances of skin eruptions, edema, nausea and constipation, extrapyramidal symptoms, minor menstrual irregularities, as well as increased and decreased libido. Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage. Changes in EEG patterns have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment. Blood dyscrasias, including agranulocytosia, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable. Typical of anticholinergic agents, adverse effects reported with use of Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride and Clidinium Bromide Capsules may include dry mouth, blurred vision, urinary hesitancy and constipation. Constipation has occured most often when combined with other spasmolytic agents and/or a restrictive, low residue diet. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report suspected side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No side effects or manifestation not seen with either compound alone have been reported with the administration of Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride/Clidinium Bromide. However, since the capsule contains chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide, the possibility of untoward effects which may be seen with either of these two compounds cannot be excluded. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been used alone the necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare. Drowsiness, ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients - particularly the elderly and debilitated. While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment, they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges. In a few instances syncope has been reported. Other adverse reactions reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride include isolated instances of skin eruptions, edema, minor menstrual irregularities, nausea and constipation, extrapyramidal symptoms, as well as increased and decreased libido. Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage. Changes in EEG patterns (low-voltage fast activity) have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment. Blood dyscrasias, including agranulocytosis, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride. When Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable. Adverse effects reported with use of Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride/Clidinium Bromide are those typical of anticholinergic agents, i.e., dryness of the mouth, blurring of vision, urinary hesitancy and constipation. Constipation has occurred most often when Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride/Clidinium Bromide therapy has been combined with other spasmolytic agents and/or low residue diet."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No side effects or manifestations not seen with either compound alone have been reported with the administration of Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules. However, since Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules contain Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride and Clidinium Bromide, the possibility of untoward effects which may be seen with either of these two compounds cannot be excluded. When Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride has been used alone the necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare. Drowsiness, ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients - particularly the elderly and debilitated. While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment, they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges. In a few instances syncope has been reported. Other adverse reactions reported during therapy with Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride include isolated instances of skin eruptions, edema, minor menstrual irregularities, nausea and constipation, extrapyramidal symptoms, as well as increased and decreased libido. Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage. Changes in EEG patterns (low-voltage fast activity) have been observed in patients during and after Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride treatment. Blood dyscrasias, including agranulocytosis, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride. When Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride treatment is protracted, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable. Adverse effects reported with use of Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules are those typical of anticholinergic agents, ie, dryness of the mouth, blurring of vision, urinary hesitancy and constipation. Constipation has occurred most often when Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules therapy has been combined with other spasmolytic agents and/or a low residue diet."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No side effects or manifestations not seen with either compound alone have been reported with the administration of Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules. However, since Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules contain chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide, the possibility of untoward effects which may be seen with either of these two compounds cannot be excluded. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been used alone the necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare. Drowsiness, ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients - particularly the elderly and debilitated. While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment, they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges. In a few instances syncope has been reported. Other adverse reactions reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride include isolated instances of skin eruptions, edema, minor menstrual irregularities, nausea and constipation, extrapyramidal symptoms, as well as increased and decreased libido. Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage. Changes in EEG patterns (low-voltage fast activity) have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment. Blood dyscrasias, including agranulocytosis, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable. Adverse effects reported with use of Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules are those typical of anticolinergic agents, ie, dryness of the mouth, blurring of vision, urinary hesitancy and constipation. Constipation has occurred most often when Chlordiazepoxide HCl and Clidinium Bromide Capsules therapy has been combined with other spasmolytic agents and/or a low residue diet."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No side effects or manifestations not seen with either compound alone have been reported with the administration of Chlordiazepoxide HCl/Clidinium Bromide. However, the possibility of untoward effects which may be seen with either of these two compounds cannot be excluded. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been used alone the necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare. Drowsiness, ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients \\342\\200\\224 particularly the elderly and debilitated. While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment, they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges. In a few instances syncope has been reported. Other adverse reactions reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride include isolated instances of skin eruptions, edema, minor menstrual irregularities, nausea and constipation, extrapyramidal symptoms, as well as increased and decreased libido. Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage. Changes in EEG patterns (low-voltage fast activity) have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment. Blood dyscrasias, including agranulocytosis, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable. Adverse effects reported with use of are those typical of anticolinergic agents, ie, dryness of the mouth, blurring of vision, urinary hesitancy and constipation. Constipation has occurred most often when Chlordiazepoxide HCl/Clidinium Bromide therapy has been combined with other spasmolytic agents and/or a low residue diet. Chlordiazepoxide HCl/Clidinium Bromide"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No side effects or manifestations not seen with either compound alone have been reported with the administration of Chlordiazepoxide HCl/Clidinium Bromide. However, the possibility of untoward effects which may be seen with either of these two compounds cannot be excluded. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been used alone the necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare. Drowsiness, ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients \\342\\200\\224 particularly the elderly and debilitated. While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment, they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges. In a few instances syncope has been reported. Other adverse reactions reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride include isolated instances of skin eruptions, edema, minor menstrual irregularities, nausea and constipation, extrapyramidal symptoms, as well as increased and decreased libido. Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage. Changes in EEG patterns (low-voltage fast activity) have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment. Blood dyscrasias, including agranulocytosis, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable. Adverse effects reported with use of Chlordiazepoxide HCl/Clidinium Bromide are those typical of anticolinergic agents, ie, dryness of the mouth, blurring of vision, urinary hesitancy and constipation. Constipation has occurred most often when Chlordiazepoxide HCl/Clidinium Bromide therapy has been combined with other spasmolytic agents and/or a low residue diet."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No side effects or manifestations not seen with either compound alone have been reported with the administration of Librax. However, since Librax contains chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide, the possibility of untoward effects which may be seen with either of these two compounds cannot be excluded. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been used alone the necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare. Drowsiness, ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients \\342\\200\\224 particularly the elderly and debilitated. While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment, they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges. In a few instances syncope has been reported. Other adverse reactions reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride include isolated instances of skin eruptions, edema, minor menstrual irregularities, nausea and constipation, extrapyramidal symptoms, as well as increased and decreased libido. Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage. Changes in EEG patterns (low-voltage fast activity) have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment. Blood dyscrasias, including agranulocytosis, jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride. When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted, periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable. Adverse effects reported with use of Librax are those typical of anticolinergic agents, ie, dryness of the mouth, blurring of vision, urinary hesitancy and constipation. Constipation has occurred most often when Librax therapy has been combined with other spasmolytic agents and/or a low residue diet."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not use in patients receiving prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. The use of dextromethorphan may result in additive CNS depressant effects when coadministered with alcohol, antihistamines, psychotropics or other drugs that produce CNS depression. Patients may develop hypotension, hyperpyrexia, nausea, myoclonic leg jerks and coma following coadministration of MAO inhibitors and dextromethorphan. MAO inhibitors also prolong and intensify the anticholinergic effects of antihistamines. Sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effect of methyldopa, reserpine, veratrum, alkaloids and mecamylamine. Alcohol and other sedative drugs will potentiate the sedative effects of Chlorpheniramine. Care should be taken in administering this product concomitantly with other sympathomimetic amines since their combined effect on the cardiovascular system may be harmful to the patient."$$
