"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse mouth following inhalation (5.1) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis: fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with above because of the potential for worsening of these infections (5.3) Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids to inhaled corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ALVESCO (5.4) Hypercorticism, suppression of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur discontinue ALVESCO slowly (5.5) Suppression of growth in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving ALVESCO (5.7) Development of glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure and posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts closely (5.8) 5.1 Local Effects In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans occurred in 32 of 3038 patients treated with ALVESCO. Of the 32 reported cases, 20 occurred in 1394 patients treated with a total daily dose of 320 mcg of ALVESCO or higher. Most cases of candida infection were mild to moderate. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e. oral antifungal) therapy while remaining on treatment with ALVESCO, but at times therapy with ALVESCO may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ALVESCO. 5.2 Acute Asthma Episodes ALVESCO is not a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm or other acute episodes of asthma. Patients should be instructed to contact their physician immediately if episodes of asthma not responsive to their usual doses of bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with ALVESCO. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.4 Transferring Patients from Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who are transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to ALVESCO because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in asthmatic patients during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically-available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ALVESCO may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of corticosteroid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a medical identification card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ALVESCO. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during ALVESCO therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Lung function (FEV1 or AM PEFR), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic steroid therapy to ALVESCO may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic steroid therapy, e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, and eosinophilic conditions. During withdrawal from oral steroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active steroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression, despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression ALVESCO will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically similar oral doses of prednisone. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ALVESCO. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear in a small number of patients particularly when ALVESCO is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ALVESCO should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma. 5.6 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term outcomes is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g. anticonvulsants and oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. 5.7 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ALVESCO routinely (e.g. via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ALVESCO, titrate each patient's dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.8 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported following the administration of inhaled corticosteroids including ALVESCO. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. In a comparator control study of one year treatment duration, 743 patients 18 years of age and older (mean age 43.1 years) with moderate persistent asthma were treated with ALVESCO 320 mcg twice daily and 742 were treated with a labeled dose of a comparator inhaled corticosteroid appropriate for the patient population. Patients had an ophthalmology examination that included visual acuity, intraocular pressure measurement, and a slit lamp examination at baseline, 4, 8 and 12 months. Lens opacities were graded using the Lens Opacification System III. After 52 weeks, CLASS I effects (minimally detected changes) were recorded in 36.1% of the ALVESCO-treated patients and in 38.4% of patients treated with the comparator inhaled corticosteroid. The more severe CLASS III effects were recorded in 8.1% of the ALVESCO-treated patients and 9.2% of patients treated with the comparator inhaled corticosteroid. Of those patients having a CLASS III effect, the incidence of posterior sub-capsular opacities was 0.9% and 0.5% in the ALVESCO- and comparator-treated patients respectively. 5.9 Bronchospasm As with other inhaled asthma medications, bronchospasm, with an immediate increase in wheezing, may occur after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ALVESCO, it should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator. Treatment with ALVESCO should be discontinued and alternative treatment should be instituted."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse mouth following inhalation. (5.1) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis: fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3) Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids to inhaled corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ALVESCO. (5.4) Hypercorticism, suppression of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ALVESCO slowly (5.5) Suppression of growth in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving ALVESCO. (5.7) Development of glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure and posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts closely. (5.8) 5.1 Local Effects In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans occurred in 32 of 3038 patients treated with ALVESCO. Of the 32 reported cases, 20 occurred in 1394 patients treated with a total daily dose of 320 mcg of ALVESCO or higher. Most cases of Candida infection were mild to moderate. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while remaining on treatment with ALVESCO, but at times therapy with ALVESCO may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ALVESCO. 5.2 Acute Asthma Episodes ALVESCO is not a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm or other acute episodes of asthma. Patients should be instructed to contact their physician immediately if episodes of asthma not responsive to their usual doses of bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with ALVESCO. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.4 Transferring Patients from Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who are transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to ALVESCO because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in asthmatic patients during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically-available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ALVESCO may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of corticosteroid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a medical identification card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ALVESCO. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during ALVESCO therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Lung function (FEV1 or AM PEFR), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic steroid therapy to ALVESCO may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic steroid therapy, e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, and eosinophilic conditions. During withdrawal from oral steroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active steroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression, despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression ALVESCO will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically similar oral doses of prednisone. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ALVESCO. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear in a small number of patients particularly when ALVESCO is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ALVESCO should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma. 5.6 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term outcomes is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants and oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. 5.7 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ALVESCO routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ALVESCO, titrate each patient's dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.8 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported following the administration of inhaled corticosteroids including ALVESCO. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. In a comparator control study of one-year treatment duration, 743 patients 18 years of age and older (mean age 43.1 years) with moderate persistent asthma were treated with ALVESCO 320 mcg twice daily and 742 were treated with a labeled dose of a comparator-inhaled corticosteroid appropriate for the patient population. Patients had an ophthalmology examination that included visual acuity, intraocular pressure measurement, and a slit lamp examination at baseline, 4, 8 and 12 months. Lens opacities were graded using the Lens Opacification System III. After 52 weeks, CLASS I effects (minimally detected changes) were recorded in 36.1% of the ALVESCO-treated patients and in 38.4% of patients treated with the comparator-inhaled corticosteroid. The more severe CLASS III effects were recorded in 8.1% of the ALVESCO-treated patients and 9.2% of patients treated with the comparator-inhaled corticosteroid. Of those patients having a CLASS III effect, the incidence of posterior sub-capsular opacities was 0.9% and 0.5% in the ALVESCO- and comparator-treated patients, respectively. 5.9 Bronchospasm As with other inhaled asthma medications, bronchospasm, with an immediate increase in wheezing, may occur after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ALVESCO, it should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator. Treatment with ALVESCO should be discontinued and alternative treatment should be instituted."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Local Nasal Effects, including epistaxis, ulceration, nasal septal perforations, Candida albicans infection impaired wound healing: Prior to initiating therapy, examine patients for evidence of septal perforation, erosions, ulceration, nasal surgery, and trauma. Avoid spraying ZETONNA directly onto the nasal septum. Avoid use in patients with recent septal perforation, nasal erosion, nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Discontinue ZETONNA if erosions, ulcerations or perforations occur. (5.1) Development of glaucoma or cataracts: Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, or cataracts. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported following administration of ciclesonide with manifestations such as angioedema, with swelling of the lips, tongue and pharynx. (5.3) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chicken pox or measles in susceptible individuals. Use caution in patients with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages. If such changes occur, discontinue ZETONNA slowly. (5.5) Potential reduction in growth velocity in children: Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving ZETONNA. (5.6, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis and Nasal Ulceration: In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks in duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in patients treated with ZETONNA than those who received placebo. In the 26-week open-label extension of the perennial allergic rhinitis trial, nasal ulceration was identified in 4 of 824 patients administered ZETONNA (148 mcg). [see Adverse Reactions (6)] The occurrence of local nasal adverse events was further evaluated in a separate, postmarketing 26-week randomized, open-label, active-controlled nasal and ocular safety trial conducted in patients with perennial allergic rhinitis. In this study epistaxis was observed in 6% of patients treated with ZETONNA and nasal ulceration was identified in 3 of 367 patients administered ZETONNA. [see Adverse Reactions (6)] Nasal Septal Perforation: Nasal septal perforation has been reported in patients following the intranasal application of ZETONNA. Three short-term placebo-controlled trials (2 weeks) and one long-term (26 weeks with placebo control and 26 weeks open-label extension without placebo control) trial were conducted in patients with seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis. Nasal septal perforations were reported in 2 patients out of 2335 treated with ZETONNA compared with none of 892 treated with placebo. No nasal septal perforations were reported in 367 patients treated with ZETONNA in a postmarketing 26-week, open-label, active-controlled trial in patients with perennial allergic rhinitis. [see Adverse Reactions (6)] Before starting ZETONNA conduct a nasal examination to ensure that patients are free of nasal disease other than allergic rhinitis. Periodically monitor patients with nasal examinations during treatment for adverse effects in the nasal cavity. If an adverse reaction (e.g. erosion, ulceration, perforation) is noted, discontinue ZETONNA. Avoid spraying ZETONNA directly onto the nasal septum. Candida Infection: In clinical trials with another formulation of ciclesonide, the development of localized infections of the nose or pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. If such an infection develops with ZETONNA, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of ZETONNA. Impaired Wound Healing: Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal septal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should not use ZETONNA until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity ZETONNA is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ciclesonide or any of the ingredients of ZETONNA. Cases of hypersensitivity reactions following administration of ciclesonide with manifestations such as angioedema, with swelling of the lips, tongue and pharynx, have been reported. 5.4 Immunosuppression Patients who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chicken pox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; or in patients with untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections; systemic viral or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.5 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Suppression Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur when intranasal corticosteroids, such as ZETONNA, are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages. If such changes occur, the dosage of ZETONNA should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral steroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and muscular pain, lassitude, and depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely (e.g., via stadiometry) in pediatric patients receiving ZETONNA. [see Pediatric Use (8.4)]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Most common adverse reactions (>= 3%) are headache, nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, upper respiratory infection, arthralgia, nasal congestion, pain in extremity and back pain. (6) Other adverse reactions have been reported. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc.at 1-877-737-7226 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. For customer service, call 1-888-394-7377 For medical information, call 1-800-739-0565 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience The safety data described below for adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older reflect exposure to ALVESCO in doses ranging from 80 mcg to 640 mcg twice daily in five double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials. Studies with once daily dosing are omitted from the safety database because the doses studied once daily are lower than the highest recommended twice daily doses. The five studies were of 12 to 16 weeks treatment duration, one of which included a safety extension follow-up of one year. In the 12 to 16 week treatment studies, 720 patients (298 males and 422 females) aged 12 years and older were exposed to ALVESCO. In the long-term safety trial, 197 patients (82 males and 115 females) with severe persistent asthma from one of the 12-week trials were re-randomized and treated for up to one year with ALVESCO 320 mcg twice daily. Safety information for pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age, is obtained from once daily dosing studies. Two of these studies were designed with a 12-week double-blind treatment period followed by a long-term open label safety extension of one year, and one study was an open-label safety study of one-year duration [see Pediatric Use (8.4)]. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Four of the five trials included a total of 624 patients ages 12 years and older (359 females and 265 males) with asthma of varying severity who were treated with ALVESCO 80 mcg, 160 mcg, or 320 mcg twice daily for 12 to 16 weeks. These studies included patients previously using either controller therapy (predominantly inhaled corticosteroids) or reliever therapy (bronchodilator therapy alone). In these trials, the mean age was 39.1 years, and the majority of the patients (79.0%) were Caucasian. In these trials, 52.3%, 59.8% and 54.1% of the patients in the ALVESCO 80 mcg, 160 mcg, and 320 mcg treatment groups, respectively, had at least one adverse event compared to 58.0% in the placebo group. Table 1 includes adverse reactions for the recommended doses of ALVESCO that occurred at an incidence of >= 3% in any of the ALVESCO groups and which were more frequent with ALVESCO compared to placebo. Table 1: Adverse Reactions with >= 3% Incidence Reported in Patients >= 12 Years of Age with ALVESCO in US Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials in Patients Previously on Bronchodilators and/or Inhaled Corticosteroids Adverse Reaction Placebo (N=507) % ALVESCO 80 mcg BID (N=325) % 160 mcg BID (N=127) % 320 mcg BID (N=172) % Headache 7.3 4.9 11.0 8.7 Nasopharyngitis 7.5 10.5 8.7 7.0 Sinusitis 3.0 3.1 5.5 5.2 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 4.3 4.3 2.4 4.7 Upper respiratory Inf. 6.5 7.1 8.7 4.1 Arthralgia 1.0 0.9 2.4 3.5 Nasal congestion 1.6 1.8 5.5 2.9 Pain in extremity 1.0 0.3 3.1 2.3 Back pain 2.0 0.6 3.1 1.2 The following adverse reactions occurred in these clinical trials using ALVESCO with an incidence of less than 1% and occurred at a greater incidence with ALVESCO than with placebo. Infections and Infestations: Oral candidiasis Respiratory Disorders: Cough Gastrointestinal Disorders: Dry mouth, nausea General Disorders and Administrative Site Conditions: Chest discomfort Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Dysphonia, dry throat The fifth study was a 12-week clinical trial in asthma patients 12 years of age and older who previously required oral corticosteroids (average daily dose of oral prednisone of 12 mg/day), in which the effects of ALVESCO 320 mcg twice daily (n = 47) and 640 mcg twice daily (n = 49) were compared with placebo (n = 45) for the frequency of reported adverse reactions. The following adverse reactions occurred at an incidence of >= 3% in the ALVESCO-treated patients and were more frequent compared to placebo: sinusitis, hoarseness, oral candidiasis, influenza, pneumonia, nasopharyngitis, arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, headache, urticaria, dizziness, gastroenteritis, face edema, fatigue, and conjunctivitis. Pediatric Patients less than 12 Years of Age The safety of ALVESCO in pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age was evaluated in two studies in which ALVESCO 40 mcg, 80 mcg, and 160 mcg was administered once daily for 12 weeks and in one study in pediatric patients 2 to 6 years of age in which ALVESCO 40 mcg, 80 mcg, and 160 mcg was administered once daily for 24 weeks. Studies have not been conducted in patients less than 2 years of age [see Pediatric Use (8.4)]. Long-Term Clinical Trials Experience A total of 197 patients 12 years of age and older (82 males and 115 females) from one of the 12-week treatment placebo-controlled studies were re-randomized to ciclesonide 320 mcg twice daily and followed for one year. The safety profile from the one-year follow-up was similar to that seen in the 12- and 16-week treatment studies. Long-term safety information for pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age is obtained from three open-label one-year safety studies [see Pediatric Use (8.4)]. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions identified from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during worldwide post-marketing use of ciclesonide oral inhalation. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Immune System Disorders: Immediate or delayed hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema with swelling of the lips, tongue and pharynx."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Immunosupression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are headache, nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, upper respiratory infection, arthralgia, nasal congestion, pain in extremity and back pain (6) Other adverse reactions have been reported (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sepracor Inc. at 1-877-737-7226 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. For customer service, call 1-888-394-7377 For medical information, call 1-800-739-0565 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience The safety data described below for adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older reflect exposure to ALVESCO in doses ranging from 80 mcg to 640 mcg twice daily in five double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials. Studies with once daily dosing are omitted from the safety database because the doses studied once daily are lower than the highest recommended twice daily doses. The five studies were of 12 to 16 weeks treatment duration, one of which included a safety extension follow up of one year. In the 12 to 16 week treatment studies, 720 patients (298 males and 422 females) aged 12 years and older were exposed to ALVESCO. In the long-term safety trial, 197 patients (82 males and 115 females) with severe persistent asthma from one of the 12-week trials were re-randomized and treated for up to one year with ALVESCO 320 mcg twice daily. Safety information for pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age, is obtained from once daily dosing studies. Two of these studies were designed with a 12-week double-blind treatment period followed by a long-term open label safety extension of one year, and one study was an open label safety study of one year duration [see Pediatric Use (8.4)]. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult and Adolescent 12 Years of Age and Older Four of the five trials included a total of 624 patients ages 12 years and older (359 females and 265 males) with asthma of varying severity who were treated with ALVESCO 80 mcg, 160 mcg, or 320 mcg twice daily for 12 to 16 weeks. These studies included patients previously using either controller therapy (predominantly inhaled corticosteroids) or reliever therapy (bronchodilator therapy alone). In these trials, the mean age was 39.1 years, and the majority of the patients (79.0%) were Caucasian. In these trials, 52.3%, 59.8% and 54.1% of the patients in the ALVESCO 80 mcg, 160 mcg, and 320 mcg treatment groups, respectively, had at least one adverse event compared to 58.0% in the placebo group. Table 1 includes adverse reactions for the recommended doses of ALVESCO that occurred at an incidence of >= 3% in any of the ALVESCO groups and which were more frequent with ALVESCO compared to placebo. Table 1: Adverse Reactions with >= 3% Incidence Reported in Patients >= 12 Years of Age with ALVESCO in US Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials in Patients Previously on Bronchodilators and/or Inhaled Corticosteroids Adverse Reaction ALVESCO Placebo (N=507) % 80 mcg BID (N=325) % 160 mcg BID (N=127) % 320 mcg BID (N=172) % Headache 7.3 4.9 11.0 8.7 Nasopharyngitis 7.5 10.5 8.7 7.0 Sinusitis 3.0 3.1 5.5 5.2 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 4.3 4.3 2.4 4.7 Upper respiratory Inf. 6.5 7.1 8.7 4.1 Arthralgia 1.0 0.9 2.4 3.5 Nasal congestion 1.6 1.8 5.5 2.9 Pain in extremity 1.0 0.3 3.1 2.3 Back pain 2.0 0.6 3.1 1.2 The following adverse reactions occurred in these clinical trials using ALVESCO with an incidence of less than 1% and occurred at a greater incidence with ALVESCO than with placebo. Infections and Infestations: Oral candidiasis Respiratory Disorders: Cough Gastrointestinal Disorders: Dry mouth, nausea General disorders and administrative site conditions: Chest discomfort Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Dysphonia, dry throat The fifth study was a 12-week clinical trial in asthma patients 12 years of age and older who previously required oral corticosteroids (average daily dose of oral prednisone of 12 mg/day), in which the effects of ALVESCO 320 mcg twice daily (n = 47) and 640 mcg twice daily (n = 49) were compared with placebo (n = 45) for the frequency of reported adverse reactions. The following adverse reactions occurred at an incidence of >= 3% in the ALVESCO-treated patients and were more frequent compared to placebo: sinusitis, hoarseness, oral candidiasis, influenza, pneumonia, nasopharyngitis, arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, headache, urticaria, dizziness, gastroenteritis, face edema, fatigue, and conjunctivitis. Pediatric Patients 4 to 11 Years of Age The safety of ALVESCO in pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age was evaluated in two studies in which ALVESCO 40 mcg, 80 mcg, and 160 mcg was administered once daily for 12 weeks [see Pediatric Use (8.4)]. Pediatric Patients under 4 Years of Age Studies have not been conducted in patients under 4 years of age. Long-Term Clinical Trials Experience A total of 197 patients 12 years of age and older (82 males and 115 females) from one of the 12-week treatment placebo-controlled studies were re-randomized to ciclesonide 320 mcg twice daily and followed for one year. The safety profile from the one-year follow up was similar to that seen in the 12- and 16-week treatment studies. Long term safety information for pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age is obtained from three open label one year safety studies [see Pediatric Use (8.4)]. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions identified from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during worldwide post-marketing use of ciclesonide oral inhalation. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Immune System Disorders: Immediate or delayed hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema with swelling of the lips, tongue and pharynx."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, ulcerations, nasal septal perforations, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5, 5.6), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] The most common adverse reactions (>=2% incidence) included nasal discomfort, headache and epistaxis. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-737-7226 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience The safety data described below for adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older are based on 4 clinical trials evaluating doses of ciclesonide nasal aerosol from 74 to 282 mcg. Three of the clinical trials were 2 to 6 weeks in duration and one trial was 26 weeks in duration with an additional 26-week open-label extension. Data from the first 6 weeks of the 26-week trial were pooled with data from the three 2-week trials. Short-term data (2 to 6 weeks) included 3001 patients with seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis, of these, 884 received ZETONNA 74 mcg once daily and 892 received placebo. The short-term data included 1098 (36.6%) males, 1903 (63.4%) females, 2587 (86.2%) Caucasians, 320 (10.7%) Blacks, 49 (1.6%) Asians, and 45 (1.5%) patients classified as Other. The 26-week trial was conducted in 1110 patients with perennial allergic rhinitis [394 (35.5%) males and 716 (64.5%) females, ages 12 to 78 years old] treated with ZETONNA 74 mcg, 148 mcg or placebo once daily. Of these patients, 298 were treated with 74 mcg ZETONNA, 505 with 148 mcg, and 307 with placebo. The racial distribution in this trial included 922 (83.1%) Caucasians, 146 (13.2%) Blacks, 18 (1.6%) Asians, and 24 (2.2%) patients classified as Other. The 26-week open-label extension included 824 patients [295 (35.8%) males and 529 (64.2%) females, ages 12 to 79 years old] given ZETONNA 148 mcg once daily. The racial distribution in the open-label extension included 690 (83.7%) Caucasians, 104 (12.6%) Blacks, 15 (1.8%) Asians, and 15 (1.8%) patients classified as Other. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Short-Term (2-6 weeks) Trials: In three short-term trials and the first 6 weeks of one long-term trial, conducted in the US, 884 patients with a history of seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis were treated with ZETONNA 74 mcg daily. Adverse reactions did not differ appreciably based on age, gender, or race. The table below displays reactions that occurred with an incidence of at least 2.0% and more frequently with ZETONNA 74 mcg than with placebo in seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis clinical trials of 2 to 6 weeks duration. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Occurring with a Frequency of at least 2.0% and Greater than Placebo from Controlled Clinical Trials 2 to 6 Weeks in Duration in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older with Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis a Nasal discomfort includes both nasal discomfort and instillation site discomfort Adverse Reaction ZETONNA Nasal Aerosol 74 mcg Once Daily N = 884 Placebo N = 892 Nasal discomforta 28 (3.2%) 16 (1.8%) Headache 27 (3.1%) 11 (1.2%) Epistaxis 26 (2.9%) 24 (2.7%) When considering the data from higher doses evaluated in the short-term trials, epistaxis demonstrated a dose response. In addition, two patients treated with ZETONNA 74 mcg experienced nasal septal perforations in the short-term trials compared to no patients treated with placebo. Approximately 1.2% of patients treated with ZETONNA 74 mcg in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for patients treated with placebo. Discontinuations due to local adverse reactions were similar in ZETONNA 74 mcg treated patients (0.8%) compared to placebo treated patients (0.8%). Local adverse reactions leading to discontinuation that occurred only in ZETONNA treated patients included ear infection, nasal discomfort, nasal dryness, nasal mucosal/septum disorders, pharyngitis, streptococcal pharyngitis, sinus headache, and tonsillitis. Long-Term (26-Week Double-Blind and 26-Week Open-Label) Safety Trial: In one 26-week double-blind, placebo-controlled safety trial that included 1110 adult and adolescent patients with perennial allergic rhinitis, additional adverse reactions, with an incidence of at least 2%, that occurred more frequently with ZETONNA than with placebo were upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, oropharyngeal pain, nasal mucosal/septum disorders, viral upper respiratory tract infection, cough, influenza, bronchitis, streptococcal pharyngitis, muscle strain, and nausea. Nasal discomfort (5.7%) and epistaxis (11.4%) were also more frequent in the 26-week safety trial compared to clinical trials 2 to 6 weeks in duration. Nasal mucosal/septum disorders and cough demonstrated a dose response. Discontinuations due to adverse reactions were higher in ZETONNA treated patients compared to placebo treated patients and demonstrated a dose response. Local adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were also higher in ZETONNA 74 mcg treated patients (1.7%) compared to placebo treated patients (0.7%). The only local adverse reaction leading to discontinuation that occurred in ZETONNA treated patients and was not observed in the 2- to 6-week trials was upper respiratory tract infection. A total of 824 patients with perennial allergic rhinitis who completed the 26-week double-blind trial enrolled into an open-label extension and received ZETONNA 148 mcg for 26 weeks. Additional adverse reactions, observed with an incidence of at least 2% were sinusitis, nasopharyngitis, and back pain. A total of 4 nasal septal ulcerations were also reported in the 26-week open-label extension. There were no reports of nasal septal perforations in the long-term safety trial. Long-Term (6-Month Open-Label) Nasal Safety Trial: Nasal and ocular safety was evaluated in one 26-week, postmarketing, randomized, open-label, active-controlled trial, in adult and adolescent patients 12-74 years of age with a history of perennial allergic rhinitis. A total of 737 patients were treated with ZETONNA 74 mcg or ciclesonide nasal spray 200 mcg once daily. The combined incidence of nasal mucosal or septum disorders, including erosions and ulcerations, was 3 (0.8%) for ZETONNA 74 mcg and 4 (1.1%) for ciclesonide nasal spray 200 mcg treated patients. There were no nasal septal perforations reported with either treatment. Ocular findings, including the development or worsening of lens opacities, increase in intraocular pressure, and worsening visual acuity, were also evaluated over the 26-week treatment period. The occurrence of ocular safety events was similar for the ZETONNA 74 mcg and ciclesonide nasal spray 200 mcg treatment groups. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of other formulations of ciclesonide, ALVESCO(R) Inhalation Aerosol and OMNARIS(R) Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. ALVESCO(R) Inhalation Aerosol: immediate or delayed hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema with swelling of the lips, tongue, and pharynx. OMNARIS(R) Nasal Spray: nasal congestion, nasal ulcer, and dizziness. Localized infections of the nose or mouth with Candida albicans have also occurred with OMNARIS(R) Nasal Spray."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In clinical studies, concurrent administration of ciclesonide and other drugs commonly used in the treatment of asthma (albuterol, formoterol) had no effect on pharmacokinetics of des-ciclesonide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In vitro studies and clinical pharmacology studies suggested that des-ciclesonide has no potential for metabolic drug interactions or protein binding-based drug interactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of orally inhaled ciclesonide and oral ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, increased the exposure (AUC) of des-ciclesonide by approximately 3.6-fold at steady state, while levels of ciclesonide remained unchanged."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro studies and clinical pharmacology studies suggested that des-ciclesonide has no potential for metabolic drug interactions or protein binding-based drug interactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of orally inhaled ciclesonide and oral ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, increased the exposure (AUC) of des-ciclesonide by approximately 3.6-fold at steady state, while levels of ciclesonide remained unchanged. Erythromycin, a moderate inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of either des-ciclesonide or erythromycin following oral inhalation of ciclesonide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
