"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is for otic use only. (5.1) Hypersensitivity: discontinue at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. (5.2) Use of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms. (5.3) 5.1 Otic Use Only Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is for otic use only. It should not be used for injection, for inhalation or for topical ophthalmic use. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.3 Growth of Resistant Organisms with Prolonged Use As with other anti-infectives, use of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms, including yeast and fungi. If super-infection occurs, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. 5.4 Lack of Clinical Response If the infection is not improved after one week of therapy, cultures may help guide further treatment."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity: Discontinue use at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. ( 5.1 ) Potential for Microbial Overgrowth: Prolonged use may result in the overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. ( 5.2 ) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions OTOVEL should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, angioedema (including laryngeal, pharyngeal or facial edema), airway obstruction, dyspnea, urticaria and itching. Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require immediate emergency treatment. 5.2 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use Prolonged use of OTOVEL may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. If the infection is not improved after one week of treatment, cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. 5.3 Continued or Recurrent Otorrhea If otorrhea persists after a full course of therapy, or if two or more episodes of otorrhea occur within 6 months, further evaluation is recommended to exclude an underlying condition such as cholesteatoma, foreign body, or a tumor."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse drug reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial, approximately 300 patients with clinical signs and symptoms of otitis externa were treated with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution. The most frequently reported adverse reactions were application site pain, ear pruritus, fungal ear superinfection, and headache, each reported in approximately 2-3% of patients. The most common adverse reactions reported in 2-3% of patients treated with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution were application site pain, ear pruritus, fungal ear superinfection, and headache. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Xspire Pharma at 1-888-252-3901 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] The most common adverse reactions that occurred in >=1 patient were otorrhea, excessive granulation tissue, ear infection, ear pruritus, tympanic membrane disorder, auricular swelling and balance disorder (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Arbor Pharmaceuticals at 1-866-516-4950 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials, 224 patients with AOMT were treated with OTOVEL for a median duration of 7 days. All the patients received at least one dose of OTOVEL. There were 220 patients who received at least one dose of ciprofloxacin (CIPRO) and 213 patients received at least one dose of fluocinolone acetonide (FLUO). The most common adverse reactions that occurred in 1 or more patients are as follows: Table 1: Selected Adverse Reactions that Occurred in 1 or more Patients in the OTOVEL Group Adverse Reactions1 Number (%) of Patients OTOVEL N=224 CIPRO N=220 FLUO N=213 Otorrhea 12 (5.4%) 9 (4.1%) 12 (5.6%) Excessive granulation tissue 3 (1.3%) 0 (0.0%) 2 (0.9%) Ear infection 2 (0.9%) 3 (1.4%) 1 (0.5%) Ear pruritus 2 (0.9%) 1 (0.5%) 1 (0.5%) Tympanic membrane disorder 2 (0.9%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) Auricular swelling 1 (0.4%) 1 (0.5%) 0 (0.0%) Balance disorder 1 (0.4%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) 1Selected adverse reactions that occurred in >= 1 patient in the OTOVEL group derived from all reported adverse events that could be related to the study drug or the drug class. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ciprofloxacin and fluocinolone acetonide otic solution, 0.3% / 0.025% outside the US. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Immune system disorders: allergic reaction. Infections and infestations: candidiasis. Nervous system disorders: dysgeusia, paresthesia (tingling in ears), dizziness, headache. Ear and labyrinth disorders: ear discomfort, hypoacusis, tinnitus, ear congestion. Vascular disorders: flushing. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: skin exfoliation. Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: device occlusion (tympanostomy tube obstruction)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In Phase 3 clinical trials, a total of 564 patients were treated with CIPRO(R) HC OTIC. Adverse events with at least remote relationship to treatment included headache (1.2%) and pruritus (0.4%). The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: migraine, hypesthesia, paresthesia, fungal dermatitis, cough, rash, urticaria, and alopecia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions (incidences) were reported in 2% of the patients in clinical studies for CILOXAN(R) (ciprofloxacin hydrochloride ophthalmic ointment): discomfort, keratopathy. Other reactions associated with ciprofloxacin therapy occurring in less than 1% of patients included allergic reactions, blurred vision, corneal staining, decreased visual acuity, dry eye, edema, epitheliopathy, eye pain, foreign body sensation, hyperemia, irritation, keratoconjunctivitis, lid erythema, lid margin hyperemia, photophobia, pruritus, and tearing. Systemic adverse reactions related to ciprofloxacin therapy occurred at an incidence below 1% and included dermatitis, nausea and taste perversion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported drug related adverse reaction was local burning or discomfort. In corneal ulcer studies with frequent administration of the drug, white crystalline precipitates were seen in approximately 17% of patients (see PRECAUTIONS ). Other reactions occurring in less than 10% of patients included lid margin crusting, crystals/scales, foreign body sensation, itching, conjunctival hyperemia and a bad taste following instillation. Additional events occurring in less than 1% of patients included corneal staining, keratopathy/keratitis, allergic reactions, lid edema, tearing, photophobia, corneal infiltrates, nausea and decreased vision."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported drug related adverse reaction was local burning or discomfort. In corneal ulcer studies with frequent administration of the drug, white crystalline precipitates were seen in approximately 17% of patients (See PRECAUTIONS). Other reactions occurring in less than 10% of patients included lid margin crusting, crystals/scales, foreign body sensation, itching, conjunctival hyperemia and a bad taste following instillation. Additional events occurring in less than 1% of patients included corneal staining, keratopathy/keratitis, allergic reactions, lid edema, tearing, photophobia, corneal infiltrates, nausea and decreased vision."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported drug related adverse reaction was local burning or discomfort. In corneal ulcer studies with frequent administration of the drug, white crystalline precipitates were seen in approximately 17% of patients (SEE PRECAUTIONS ). Other reactions occurring in less than 10% of patients included lid margin crusting, crystals/scales, foreign body sensation, itching, conjunctival hyperemia and a bad taste following instillation. Additional events occurring in less than 1% of patients included corneal staining, keratopathy/keratitis, allergic reactions, lid edema, tearing, photophobia, corneal infiltrates, nausea and decreased vision."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported drug related adverse reaction was local burning or discomfort. In corneal ulcer studies with frequent administration of the drug, white crystalline precipitates were seen in approximately 17% of patients (SEE PRECAUTIONS). Other reactions occurring in less than 10% of patients included lid margin crusting, crystals/scales, foreign body sensation, itching, conjunctival hyperemia and a bad taste following instillation. Additional events occurring in less than 1% of patients included corneal staining, keratopathy/keratitis, allergic reactions, lid edema, tearing, photophobia, corneal infiltrates, nausea and decreased vision."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The most frequently reported drug related adverse reaction was local burning or discomfort. In corneal ulcer studies with frequent administration of the drug, white crystalline precipitates were seen in approximately 17% of patients (SEE PRECAUTIONS). Other reactions occurring in less than 10% of patients included lid margin crusting, crystals/scales, foreign body sensation, itching, conjunctival hyperemia and a bad taste following instillation. Additional events occurring in less than 1% of patients included corneal staining, keratopathy/keratitis, allergic reactions, lid edema, tearing, photophobia, corneal infiltrates, nausea and decreased vision."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The most frequently reported drug related adverse reaction was local burning or discomfort. In corneal ulcer studies with frequent administration of the drug, white crystalline precipitates were seen in approximately 17% of patients (See ). Other reactions occurring in less than 10% of patients included lid margin crusting, crystals/scales, foreign body sensation, itching, conjunctival hyperemia and a bad taste following instillation. Additional events occurring in less than 1% of patients included corneal staining, keratopathy/keratitis, allergic reactions, lid edema, tearing, photophobia, corneal infiltrates, nausea and decreased vision. PRECAUTIONS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The most frequently reported drug related adverse reaction was local burning or discomfort. In corneal ulcer studies with frequent administration of the drug, white crystalline precipitates were seen in approximately 17% of patients (See PRECAUTIONS). Other reactions occurring in less than 10% of patients included lid margin crusting, crystals/scales, foreign body sensation, itching, conjunctival hyperemia and a bad taste following instillation. Additional events occurring in less than 1% of patients included corneal staining, keratopathy/keratitis, allergic reactions, lid edema, tearing, photophobia, corneal infiltrates, nausea and decreased vision."$$
"Drug interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ophthalmic ciprofloxacin. However, the systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to elevate plasma concentrations of theophylline, interfere with the metabolism of caffeine, enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant, warfarin, and its derivatives and has been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ophthalmic ciprofloxacin. However, the systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to elevate plasma concentrations of theophylline, interfere with the metabolism of caffeine, enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant, warfarin, and its derivatives and has been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ophthalmic ciprofloxacin. However, the systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to elevate plasma concentrations of theophylline, interfere with the metabolism of caffeine, enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant, warfarin, and its derivatives, and has been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly."$$
"Drug Interactions: Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ophthalmic ciprofloxacin. However, the systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to elevate plasma concentrations of theophylline, interfere with the metabolism of caffeine, enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant, warfarin, and its derivatives and has been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly."$$
