"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is for otic use only. (5.1) Hypersensitivity: discontinue at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. (5.2) Use of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms. (5.3) 5.1 Otic Use Only Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution is for otic use only. It should not be used for injection, for inhalation or for topical ophthalmic use. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.3 Growth of Resistant Organisms with Prolonged Use As with other anti-infectives, use of Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms, including yeast and fungi. If super-infection occurs, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. 5.4 Lack of Clinical Response If the infection is not improved after one week of therapy, cultures may help guide further treatment."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis have been reported with systemic use of quinolones. Discontinue use if this occurs with use of CIPRODEX. (5.1) Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. (5.2) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions CIPRODEX should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, angioedema (including laryngeal, pharyngeal or facial edema), airway obstruction, dyspnea, urticaria and itching. 5.2 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use Prolonged use of CIPRODEX may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible, bacteria and fungi. If the infection is not improved after one week of treatment, cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. 5.3 Continued or Recurrent Otorrhea If otorrhea persists after a full course of therapy, or if two or more episodes of otorrhea occur within six months, further evaluation is recommended to exclude an underlying condition such as cholesteatoma, foreign body, or a tumor."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity: Discontinue use at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. ( 5.1 ) Potential for Microbial Overgrowth: Prolonged use may result in the overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. ( 5.2 ) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions OTOVEL should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, angioedema (including laryngeal, pharyngeal or facial edema), airway obstruction, dyspnea, urticaria and itching. Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require immediate emergency treatment. 5.2 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use Prolonged use of OTOVEL may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. If the infection is not improved after one week of treatment, cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. 5.3 Continued or Recurrent Otorrhea If otorrhea persists after a full course of therapy, or if two or more episodes of otorrhea occur within 6 months, further evaluation is recommended to exclude an underlying condition such as cholesteatoma, foreign body, or a tumor."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse drug reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In a randomized, active-controlled clinical trial, approximately 300 patients with clinical signs and symptoms of otitis externa were treated with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution. The most frequently reported adverse reactions were application site pain, ear pruritus, fungal ear superinfection, and headache, each reported in approximately 2-3% of patients. The most common adverse reactions reported in 2-3% of patients treated with Ciprofloxacin Otic Solution were application site pain, ear pruritus, fungal ear superinfection, and headache. ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Xspire Pharma at 1-888-252-3901 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Most common adverse reactions were ear discomfort (3%), ear pain (2.3%), and ear pruritus (1.5%). (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Alcon at 1-800-757-9195 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In Phases II and III clinical trials, a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX. This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes and 537 patients with acute otitis externa. The reported adverse reactions are listed below: Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients with Tympanostomy Tubes The following adverse reactions occurred in 0.5% or more of the patients with non-intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Reactions Incidence (N=400) Ear discomfort 3.0% Ear pain 2.3% Ear precipitate (residue) 0.5% Irritability 0.5% Taste Perversion 0.5% The following adverse reactions were each reported in a single patient: tympanostomy tube blockage; ear pruritus; tinnitus; oral moniliasis; crying; dizziness; and erythema. Acute Otitis Externa The following adverse reactions occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes Adverse Reactions Incidence (N=537) Ear pruritus 1.5% Ear debris 0.6% Superimposed ear infection 0.6% Ear congestion 0.4% Ear pain 0.4% Erythema 0.4% The following adverse reactions were each reported in a single patient: ear discomfort; decreased hearing; and ear disorder (tingling). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of CIPRODEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reactions include: auricular swelling, headache, hypersensitivity, otorrhea, skin exfoliation, rash erythematous, and vomiting."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] The most common adverse reactions that occurred in >=1 patient were otorrhea, excessive granulation tissue, ear infection, ear pruritus, tympanic membrane disorder, auricular swelling and balance disorder (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Arbor Pharmaceuticals at 1-866-516-4950 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials, 224 patients with AOMT were treated with OTOVEL for a median duration of 7 days. All the patients received at least one dose of OTOVEL. There were 220 patients who received at least one dose of ciprofloxacin (CIPRO) and 213 patients received at least one dose of fluocinolone acetonide (FLUO). The most common adverse reactions that occurred in 1 or more patients are as follows: Table 1: Selected Adverse Reactions that Occurred in 1 or more Patients in the OTOVEL Group Adverse Reactions1 Number (%) of Patients OTOVEL N=224 CIPRO N=220 FLUO N=213 Otorrhea 12 (5.4%) 9 (4.1%) 12 (5.6%) Excessive granulation tissue 3 (1.3%) 0 (0.0%) 2 (0.9%) Ear infection 2 (0.9%) 3 (1.4%) 1 (0.5%) Ear pruritus 2 (0.9%) 1 (0.5%) 1 (0.5%) Tympanic membrane disorder 2 (0.9%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) Auricular swelling 1 (0.4%) 1 (0.5%) 0 (0.0%) Balance disorder 1 (0.4%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) 1Selected adverse reactions that occurred in >= 1 patient in the OTOVEL group derived from all reported adverse events that could be related to the study drug or the drug class. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ciprofloxacin and fluocinolone acetonide otic solution, 0.3% / 0.025% outside the US. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Immune system disorders: allergic reaction. Infections and infestations: candidiasis. Nervous system disorders: dysgeusia, paresthesia (tingling in ears), dizziness, headache. Ear and labyrinth disorders: ear discomfort, hypoacusis, tinnitus, ear congestion. Vascular disorders: flushing. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: skin exfoliation. Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: device occlusion (tympanostomy tube obstruction)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In Phase 3 clinical trials, a total of 564 patients were treated with CIPRO(R) HC OTIC. Adverse events with at least remote relationship to treatment included headache (1.2%) and pruritus (0.4%). The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: migraine, hypesthesia, paresthesia, fungal dermatitis, cough, rash, urticaria, and alopecia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In Phases II and III clinical trials, a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX(R) Otic. This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes and 537 patients with acute otitis externa. The reported treatment-related adverse events are listed below: Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.5% or more of the patients with non-intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=400) Ear discomfort 3.0% Ear pain 2.3% Ear precipitate (residue) 0.5% Irritability 0.5% Taste perversion 0.5% The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: tympanostomy tube blockage; ear pruritus; tinnitus; oral moniliasis; crying; dizziness; and erythema. Acute Otitis Externa The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=537) Ear pruritus 1.5% Ear debris 0.6% Superimposed ear infection 0.6% Ear congestion 0.4% Ear pain 0.4% Erythema 0.4% The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes. The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: ear discomfort; decreased hearing; and ear disorder (tingling)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In Phases II and III clinical trials, a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX(R) Otic. This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes and 537 patients with acute otitis externa. The reported treatment-related adverse events are listed below: Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.5% or more of the patients with non-intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=400) Ear discomfort 3.0% Ear pain 2.3% Ear precipitate (residue) 0.5% Irritability 0.5% Taste perversion 0.5% The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: tympanostomy tube blockage; ear pruritus; tinnitus; oral moniliasis; crying; dizziness; and erythema. Acute Otitis Externa The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=537) Ear pruritus 1.5% Ear debris 0.6% Superimposed ear infection 0.6% Ear congestion 0.4% Ear pain 0.4% Erythema 0.4% The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: ear discomfort; decreased hearing; and ear disorder (tingling)."$$
"Drug Interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with CIPRODEX(R) Otic. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Long-term carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been completed for ciprofloxacin. After daily oral doses of 750 mg/kg (mice) and 250 mg/kg (rats) were administered for up to 2 years, there was no evidence that ciprofloxacin had any carcinogenic or tumorigenic effects in these species. No long term studies of CIPRODEX(R) Otic have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential. Eight in vitro mutagenicity tests have been conducted with ciprofloxacin, and the test results are listed below: Salmonella/Microsome Test (Negative) E. coli DNA Repair Assay (Negative) Mouse Lymphoma Cell Forward Mutation Assay (Positive) Chinese Hamster V79 Cell HGPRT Test (Negative) Syrian Hamster Embryo Cell Transformation Assay (Negative) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Point Mutation Assay (Negative) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mitotic Crossover and Gene Conversion Assay (Negative) Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay (Positive) Thus, 2 of the 8 tests were positive, but results of the following 3 in vivo test systems gave negative results: Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay Micronucleus Test (Mice) Dominant Lethal Test (Mice) Fertility studies performed in rats at oral doses of ciprofloxacin up to 100 mg/kg/day revealed no evidence of impairment. This would be over 100 times the maximum recommended clinical dose of ototopical ciprofloxacin based upon body surface area, assuming total absorption of ciprofloxacin from the ear of a patient treated with CIPRODEX(R) Otic twice per day according to label directions. Long term studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of topical otic dexamethasone. Dexamethasone has been tested for in vitro and in vivo genotoxic potential and shown to be positive in the following assays; chromosomal aberrations, sister-chromatid exchange in human lymphocytes and micronuclei and sister-chromatid exchanges in mouse bone marrow. However, the Ames/Salmonella assay, both with and without S9 mix, did not show any increase in His+ revertants. The effect of dexamethasone on fertility has not been investigated following topical otic application. However, the lowest toxic dose of dexamethasone identified following topical dermal application was 1.802 mg/kg in a 26-week study in male rats and resulted in changes to the testes, epididymis, sperm duct, prostate, seminal vessicle, Cowper's gland and accessory glands. The relevance of this study for short term topical otic use is unknown."$$
"WARNINGS NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE. NOT FOR INJECTION. CIPRO(R) HC OTIC should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones. Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require immediate emergency treatment. PRECAUTIONS GENERALAs with other antibiotic preparations, use of this product may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms, including fungi. If the infection is not improved after one week of therapy, cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment. Information for Patients If rash or allergic reaction occurs, discontinue use immediately and contact your physician. Do not use in the eyes. Avoid contaminating the dropper with material from the ear, fingers, or other sources. Protect from light. Shake well immediately before using. Discard unused portion after therapy is completed. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Eight in vitro mutagenicity tests have been conducted with ciprofloxacin, and the test results are listed below: Salmonella/Microsome Test (Negative) E. coli DNA Repair Assay (Negative) Mouse Lymphoma Cell Forward Mutation Assay (Positive) Chinese Hamster V79 Cell HGPRT Test (Negative) Syrian Hamster Embryo Cell Transformation Assay (Negative) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Point Mutation Assay (Negative) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mitotic Crossover and Gene Conversion Assay (Negative) Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay (Positive) Thus, 2 of the 8 tests were positive, but results of the following 3 in vivo test systems gave negative results: Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay Micronucleus Test (Mice) Dominant Lethal Test (Mice) Long-term carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been completed for ciprofloxacin. After daily oral doses of 750 mg/kg (mice) and 250 mg/kg (rats) were administered for up to 2 years, there was no evidence that ciprofloxacin had any carcinogenic or tumorigenic effects in these species. No long term studies of CIPRO(R) HC OTIC suspension have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential. Fertility studies performed in rats at oral doses of ciprofloxacin up to 100 mg/kg/day revealed no evidence of impairment. This would be over 1000 times the maximum recommended clinical dose of ototopical ciprofloxacin based upon body surface area, assuming total absorption of ciprofloxacin from the ear of a patient treated with CIPRO(R) HC OTIC twice per day. Long term studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical hydrocortisone. Mutagenicity studies with hydrocortisone were negative. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category CReproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using oral doses of up to 100 mg/kg and IV doses up to 30 mg/kg and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus as a result of ciprofloxacin. In rabbits, ciprofloxacin (30 and 100 mg/kg orally) produced gastrointestinal disturbances resulting in maternal weight loss and an increased incidence of abortion, but no teratogenicity was observed at either dose. After intravenous administration of doses up to 20 mg/kg, no maternal toxicity was produced in the rabbit, and no embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was observed. Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels. The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with CIPRO(R) HC OTIC. No adequate and well controlled studies have been performed in pregnant women. Caution should be exercised when CIPRO(R) HC OTIC is used by a pregnant woman. Nursing Mothers Ciprofloxacin is excreted in human milk with systemic use. It is not known whether ciprofloxacin is excreted in human milk following topical otic administration. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Pediatric use The safety and efficacy of CIPRO(R) HC OTIC have been established in pediatric patients 2 years and older (131 patients) in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials. Although no data are available on patients less than age 2 years, there are no known safety concerns or differences in the disease process in this population which would preclude use of this product in patients one year and older. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION."$$
