"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Colitis: Clindamycin can cause severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of clindamycin. Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) -Ultraviolet light and environmental exposure (including use of tanning beds or sun lamps): Minimize sun exposure following drug application. (5.2) 5.1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of clindamycin. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin. If significant diarrhea occurs, Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should be discontinued. Severe colitis has occurred following oral and parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Benzoyl peroxide, a component of Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5%, may cause increased sensitivity to sunlight. Minimize sun exposure (including use of tanning beds or sun lamps) following drug application [See Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1).] Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Colitis: Clindamycin can cause severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of clindamycin. Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) -Ultraviolet light and environmental exposure (including use of tanning beds or sun lamps): Minimize sun exposure following drug application. (5.2) 5.1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of clindamycin. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin. If significant diarrhea occurs, Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should be discontinued. Severe colitis has occurred following oral and parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Benzoyl peroxide, a component of Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5%, may cause increased sensitivity to sunlight. Minimize sun exposure (including use of tanning beds or sun lamps) following drug application. [See Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)] Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Colitis: Clindamycin can cause severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of clindamycin. Clindamycin Phosphate Foam, 1% should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) 5.1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of this product. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin. If significant diarrhea occurs, Clindamycin Phosphate Foam, 1% should be discontinued. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2).] Severe colitis has occurred following oral or parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2 Irritation Clindamycin Phosphate Foam, 1% can cause irritation. Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution since a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. If irritation or dermatitis occurs, clindamycin should be discontinued. Avoid contact of Clindamycin Phosphate Foam, 1% with eyes, mouth, lips, other mucous membranes or areas of broken skin. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Clindamycin Phosphate Foam, 1% should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Colitis: Clindamycin can cause severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of clindamycin. DUAC Gel should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) -Ultraviolet light and environmental exposure (including use of tanning beds or sun lamps): Minimize sun exposure following drug application. (5.2) 5.1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of clindamycin. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin. If significant diarrhea occurs, DUAC Gel should be discontinued. Severe colitis has occurred following oral and parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Benzoyl peroxide, a component of DUAC Gel, may cause increased sensitivity to sunlight. Minimize sun exposure (including use of tanning beds or sun lamps) following drug application. [See Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1.)] Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Colitis: Clindamycin can cause severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of clindamycin. EVOCLIN Foam should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) 5.1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of this product. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin. If significant diarrhea occurs, EVOCLIN Foam should be discontinued. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2).] Severe colitis has occurred following oral or parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2 Irritation EVOCLIN Foam can cause irritation. Concomitant topical acne thereapy should be used with caution since a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. If irritation or dermatitis occurs, clindamycin should be discontinued. Avoid contact of EVOCLIN Foam with eyes, mouth, lips, other mucous membranes or areas of broken skin. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. EVOCLIN Foam should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Colitis: Clindamycin can cause severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of clindamycin. VELTIN Gel should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) -Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure: Avoid exposure to sunlight, sunlamps, and weather extremes. Wear sunscreen daily. (5.2) 5.1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin. If significant diarrhea occurs, VELTIN Gel should be discontinued. Severe colitis has occurred following oral or parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight, including sunlamps, should be avoided during the use of VELTIN Gel. Patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered because of heightened susceptibility to sunlight as a result of the use of tretinoin. Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution. Daily use of sunscreen products and protective apparel (e.g., a hat) are recommended. Weather extremes, such as wind or cold, also may be irritating to patients under treatment with VELTIN Gel."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Colitis: Clindamycin can cause severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of clindamycin. ZIANA Gel should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) -Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposures: Avoid exposure to sunlight and sunlamps. Wear sunscreen daily. (5.2) 5.1 Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of this product. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin. When significant diarrhea occurs, ZIANA Gel should be discontinued. Severe colitis has occurred following oral or parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight, including sunlamps, should be avoided during the use of ZIANA Gel, and patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered because of heightened susceptibility to sunlight as a result of the use of tretinoin. Patients who may be required to have considerable sun exposure due to occupation and those with inherent sensitivity to the sun should exercise particular caution. Daily use of sunscreen products and protective apparel (e.g., a hat) are recommended. Weather extremes, such as wind or cold, also may be irritating to patients under treatment with ZIANA Gel."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Colitis: Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis, which may result in death. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin. ACANYA Gel should be discontinued if significant diarrhea occurs. (5.1) -Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure: Minimize sun exposure following drug application. (5.2) 5.1Colitis Systemic absorption of clindamycin has been demonstrated following topical use of clindamycin. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin. When significant diarrhea occurs, ACANYA Gel should be discontinued. Severe colitis has occurred following oral and parenteral administration of clindamycin with an onset of up to several weeks following cessation of therapy. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen severe colitis. Severe colitis may result in death. Studies indicate toxin(s) produced by Clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Stool cultures for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. 5.2Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Minimize sun exposure including use of tanning beds or sun lamps following drug application [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1) ]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Observed local adverse reactions in patients treated with ZIANA Gel were skin erythema, scaling, itching, burning, and stinging. Other most commonly reported adverse events (>= 1% in patients treated with ZIANA Gel) were nasopharyngitis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, dry skin, cough, and sinusitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Medicis, The Dermatology Company at 1-800-900-6389 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under prescribed conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse reactions that appear to be related to drug use for approximating rates. The safety data presented in Table 1 (below) reflects exposure to ZIANA Gel in 1,853 patients with acne vulgaris. Patients were 12 years and older and were treated once daily for 12 weeks. Adverse reactions that were reported in >= 1% of patients treated with ZIANA Gel were compared to adverse reactions in patients treated with clindamycin phosphate 1.2% in vehicle gel, tretinoin 0.025% in vehicle gel, and the vehicle gel alone: Table 1: Adverse Reactions Reported in at Least 1% of Patients Treated with ZIANA Gel: 12-Week Studies ZIANA Gel N=1853 N (%) Clindamycin N=1428 N (%) Tretinoin N=846 N (%) Vehicle N=423 N (%) PATIENTS WITH AT LEAST ONE AR 497 (27) 342 (24) 225 (27) 91 (22) Nasopharyngitis 65 (4) 64 (5) 16 (2) 5 (1) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 29 (2) 18 (1) 5 (1) 7 (2) Dry skin 23 (1) 7 (1) 3 (<1) 0 (0) Cough 19 (1) 21 (2) 9 (1) 2 (1) Sinusitis 19 (1) 19 (1) 15 (2) 4 (1) Note: Formulations used in all treatment arms were in the ZIANA vehicle gel. Cutaneous safety and tolerance evaluations were conducted at each study visit in all of the clinical trials by assessment of erythema, scaling, itching, burning, and stinging: Table 2: ZIANA Gel-Treated Patients with Local Skin Reactions Local Reaction Baseline N=1835 N (%) End of Treatment N=1614 N (%) Erythema 636 (35) 416 (26) Scaling 237 (13) 280 (17) Itching 189 (10) 70 (4) Burning 38 (2) 56 (4) Stinging 33 (2) 27 (2) At each study visit, application site reactions on a scale of 0 (none), 1 (mild), 2 (moderate), and 3 (severe), and the mean scores were calculated for each of the local skin reactions. In Studies 1 and 2, 1277 subjects enrolled with moderate to severe acne, 854 subjects treated with ZIANA Gel and 423 treated with vehicle. Analysis over the twelve week period demonstrated that cutaneous irritation scores for erythema, scaling, itching, burning, and stinging peaked at two weeks of therapy, and were slightly higher for the ZIANA-treated group, decreasing thereafter. One open-label 12-month safety study for ZIANA Gel showed a similar adverse reaction profile as seen in the 12-week studies. Eighteen out of 442 subjects (4%) reported gastrointestinal symptoms."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Observed local treatment-related adverse reactions (>= 1%) in clinical trials with VELTIN Gel were application site reactions, including dryness, irritation, exfoliation, erythema, pruritus, and dermatitis. Sunburn was also reported. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-784-3335 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety data reflect exposure to VELTIN Gel in 1,104 subjects with acne vulgaris. Subjects were 12 years and older and were treated once daily in the evening for 12 weeks. Adverse reactions that were reported in >=1% of subjects treated with VELTIN Gel are presented in Table 1. Table 1. Treatment-Related Adverse Reactions Reported by >=1% of Subjects VELTIN Gel N = 1,104 n (%) Clindamycin Gel N = 1,091 n (%) Tretinoin Gel N = 1,084 n (%) Vehicle Gel N = 552 n (%) Patients with at least one adverse reaction 140 (13) 38 (3) 141 (13) 17 (3) Application site dryness 64 (6) 12 (1) 62 (6) 3 (1) Application site irritation 50 (5) 4 (<1) 57 (5) 5 (1) Application site exfoliation 50 (5) 2 (<1) 56 (5) 2 (<1) Application site erythema 40 (4) 6 (1) 39 (4) 3 (1) Application site pruritus 26 (2) 7 (1) 23 (2) 6 (1) Sunburn 11 (1) 6 (1) 7 (1) 3 (1) Application site dermatitis 6 (1) 0 (0) 8 (1) 1 (<1) Local skin reactions actively assessed at baseline and end of treatment with a score >0 are presented in Table 2. Table 2. Local Skin Reactions in Subjects Treated With VELTIN Gel VELTIN Gel Vehicle Gel Local Reaction Baseline N = 476 (%) End of Treatment N = 409 (%) Baseline N = 219 (%) End of Treatment N = 209 (%) Erythema 24% 21% 31% 35% Scaling 8% 19% 14% 12% Dryness 11% 22% 18% 13% Burning 8% 13% 8% 4% Itching 17% 15% 22% 14% During the 12 weeks of treatment, each local skin reaction peaked at Week 2 and gradually reduced thereafter."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reaction is described in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label: -Colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. -The most common local adverse reactions (>= 5%) are erythema, peeling, dryness, and burning. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical trials, 397 subjects used clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5% once daily for 11 weeks for the treatment of moderate to moderately severe facial acne vulgaris. All subjects were graded for facial local skin reactions (erythema, peeling, burning, and dryness) on the following scale: 0 = absent, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, and 3 = severe. The percentage of subjects that had symptoms present before treatment (at baseline) and during treatment is presented in Table 1. Table 1. Local Skin Reactions With Use Of Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% Combined Results From Five Trials (n=397) (Percentages derived by number of subjects receiving clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5% with symptom score/number of enrolled subjects receiving clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5%). Table 1.jpg 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5%. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, has been reported in postmarketing use with clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5%."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reaction is described in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label: -Colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. - The most common local adverse reactions (>=5%) are erythema, peeling, dryness, and burning. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-784-3335 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical trials, 397 subjects used Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% once daily for 11 weeks for the treatment of moderate to moderately severe facial acne vulgaris. All subjects were graded for facial local skin reactions (erythema, peeling, burning, and dryness) on the following scale: 0 = absent, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, and 3 = severe. The percentage of subjects that had symptoms present before treatment (at baseline) and during treatment is presented in Table 1. Table 1: Local Skin Reactions with Use of Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% Combined Results from Five Trials (n = 397) Symptom % of Subjects Using Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% with Symptom Present Before Treatment (Baseline) During Treatment Mild Moderate Severe Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 28% 3% 0 26% 5% 0 Peeling 6% <1% 0 17% 2% 0 Burning 3% <1% 0 5% <1% 0 Dryness 6% <1% 0 15% 1% 0 (Percentages derived by number of subjects receiving Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% with symptom score/number of enrolled subjects receiving Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5%. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, has been reported in postmarketing use with Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5%. Urticaria, application site reactions, including discoloration have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reaction is described in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of the label: -Colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. - The most common local adverse reactions (>=5%) are erythema, peeling, dryness and burning. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-784-3335 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical trials, 397 subjects used DUAC Gel once daily for 11 weeks for the treatment of moderate to moderately severe facial acne vulgaris. All subjects were graded for facial local skin reactions (erythema, peeling, burning, and dryness) on the following scale: 0 = absent, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, and 3 = severe. The percentage of subjects that had symptoms present before treatment (at baseline) and during treatment is presented in Table 1. Table 1. Local Skin Reactions with Use of DUAC Gel Combined Results from Five Trials (n = 397) Symptom % of Subjects Using DUAC Gel with Symptom Present Before Treatment (Baseline) During Treatment Mild Moderate Severe Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 28% 3% 0 26% 5% 0 Peeling 6% <1% 0 17% 2% 0 Burning 3% <1% 0 5% <1% 0 Dryness 6% <1% 0 15% 1% 0 (Percentages derived by number of subjects receiving DUAC Gel with symptom score/number of enrolled subjects receiving DUAC Gel). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of DUAC Gel. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, has been reported in postmarketing use with DUAC Gel. Urticaria, application site reactions, including discoloration have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following selected adverse reactions occurred in less than 0.2% of patients: application site pain (0.1%); application site exfoliation (0.1%); and application site irritation (0.1%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC, at 1-800-321-4576 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under prescribed conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Because clinical trials are also conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reactions observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot always be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The following selected adverse reactions occurred in less than 0.2% of patients treated with ACANYA Gel: application site pain (0.1%); application site exfoliation (0.1%); and application site irritation (0.1%). During clinical trials, subjects were assessed for local cutaneous signs and symptoms of erythema, scaling, itching, burning and stinging. Most local skin reactions increased and peaked around week 4 and continually decreased over time reaching near baseline levels by week 12. The percentage of subjects that had symptoms present before treatment, the maximum value recorded during treatment, and the percent with symptoms present at week 12 are shown in Table 1. Table 1: Local Skin Reactions - Percent of Subjects with Symptoms Present. Combined Results from the Two Phase 3 Trials (N = 773) Before Treatment (Baseline) Maximum During Treatment End of Treatment (Week 12) Mild Mod. Mod. = Moderate Severe Mild Mod. Severe Mild Mod. Severe Erythema 22 4 0 25 5 < 1 15 2 0 Scaling 8 < 1 0 18 3 0 8 1 0 Itching 10 2 0 15 2 0 6 < 1 0 Burning 3 < 1 0 8 2 0 2 < 1 0 Stinging 2 < 1 0 6 1 0 1 < 1 0 6.2Postmarketing Experience Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalizations, has been reported in postmarketing use of products containing clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (>1%) are headache and application site reactions including burning, pruritus, and dryness. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA-approved patient labeling. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. A total of 439 subjects with mild to moderate acne vulgaris were treated once daily for 12 weeks with clindamycin phosphate foam, 1%. The incidence of adverse reactions occurring in > 1% of the subjects in clinical trials comparing clindamycin phosphate foam, 1% and its vehicle is presented in Table 1. In a contact sensitization study, none of the 203 subjects developed evidence of allergic contact sensitization to clindamycin phosphate foam, 1%. Image 1 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of clindamycin phosphate foam, 1%: application site pain, application site erythema, diarrhea, urticaria, abdominal pain, hypersensitivity, rash, abdominal discomfort, nausea, seborrhea, application site rash, dizziness, pain of skin, colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis), and hemorrhagic diarrhea. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances, as well as gram-negative folliculitis, have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin. Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin have been associated with severe colitis, which may end fatally."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (>1%) are headache and application site reactions including burning, pruritus, and dryness. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Prestium Pharma, Inc. at 1-866-897-5002 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. A total of 439 subjects with mild to moderate acne vulgaris were treated once daily for 12 weeks with EVOCLIN Foam. The incidence of adverse reactions occurring in >=1% of the subjects in clinical trials comparing EVOCLIN Foam, and its vehicle is presented in Table 1. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Occurring in >=1% of Subjects Adverse Reactions Number (%) of Subjects EVOCLIN Foam Vehicle Foam N = 439 N = 154 Headache 12 (3%) 1 (1%) Application site burning 27 (6%) 14 (9%) Application site pruritus 5 (1%) 5 (3%) Application site dryness 4 (1%) 5 (3%) Application site reaction, not otherwise specified 3 (1%) 4 (3%) In a contact sensitization study, none of the 203 subjects developed evidence of allergic contact sensitization to EVOCLIN Foam. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of EVOCLIN Foam: application site pain, application site erythema, diarrhea, urticaria, abdominal pain, hypersensitivity, rash, abdominal discomfort, nausea, seborrhea, application site rash, dizziness, pain of skin, colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis), and hemorraghic diarrhea. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances, as well as gram-negative folliculitis, have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin. Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin have been associated with severe colitis, which may end fatally."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Erythromycin Clindamycin Phosphate Foam, 1% should not be used in combination with topical or oral erythromycin-containing products due to possible antagonism to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between these two antimicrobials. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, Clindamycin Phosphate Foam, 1% should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Erythromycin EVOCLIN Foam should not be used in combination with topical or oral erythromycin-containing products due to possible antagonism to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between these two antimicrobials. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, EVOCLIN Foam should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -ACANYA Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. (7.1) 7.1Erythromycin ACANYA Gel should not be used in combination with topical or oral erythromycin-containing products due to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between erythromycin and clindamycin. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, ACANYA Gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. (7.1) 7.1 Erythromycin Avoid using Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% in combination with erythromycin-containing products due to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between erythromycin and clindamycin. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2 Concomitant Topical Medications Concomitant topical acne therapies should be used with caution since a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. If irritancy or dermatitis occurs, reduce frequency of application or temporarily interrupt treatment and resume once the irritation subsides. Treatment should be discontinued if the irritation persists. 7.3 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. (7.1) 7.1 Erythromycin Avoid using Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% in combination with erythromycin-containing products due to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between erythromycin and clindamycin. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2 Concomitant Topical Medications Concomitant topical acne therapies should be used with caution since a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. If irritancy or dermatitis occurs, reduce frequency of application or temporarily interrupt treatment and resume once the irritation subsides. Treatment should be discontinued if the irritation persists. 7.3 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1.2%/5% should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents. 7.4 Topical Sulfone Products Use of topical benzoyl-peroxide-containing preparations with topical sulfone products may cause skin and facial hair to temporarily change color (yellow/orange)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Concomitant use of topical medications with a strong drying effect can increase skin irritation. Use with caution. (7.1) -ZIANA Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. (7.2) 7.1 Concomitant Topical Medication Concomitant topical medication, medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers, soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect, and products with high concentrations of alcohol, astringents, spices or lime should be used with caution. When used with ZIANA Gel, there may be increased skin irritation. 7.2 Erythromycin ZIANA Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products due to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between these two antimicrobials. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.3 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, ZIANA Gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -DUAC Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. (7.1) 7.1 Erythromycin Avoid using DUAC Gel in combination with erythromycin-containing products due to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between erythromycin and clindamycin. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2 Concomitant Topical Medications Concomitant topical acne therapies should be used with caution since a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. If irritancy or dermatitis occurs, reduce frequency of application or temporarily interrupt treatment and resume once the irritation subsides. Treatment should be discontinued if the irritation persists. 7.3 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. DUAC Gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents. 7.4 Topical Sulfone Products Use of topical benzoyl-peroxide-containing preparations with topical sulfone products may cause skin and facial hair to temporarily change color (yellow/orange)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -VELTIN Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. (7.1) 7.1 Erythromycin VELTIN Gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products due to possible antagonism to the clindamycin component. In vitrostudies have shown antagonism between these 2 antimicrobials. The clinical significance of this in vitroantagonism is not known. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, VELTIN Gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials In clinical trials, 3 (0.5%) of 589 nonpregnant women who received treatment with CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Adverse events judged to have a reasonable possibility of having been caused by clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppositories were reported for 10.5% of patients. Events reported by 1% or more of patients receiving CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules were as follows: Urogenital system: Vulvovaginal disorder (3.4%), vaginal pain (1.9%), and vaginal moniliasis (1.5%). Body as a whole: Fungal infection (1.0%). Other events reported by <1% of patients included: Urogenital system: Menstrual disorder, dysuria, pyelonephritis, vaginal discharge, and vaginitis/vaginal infection. Body as a whole: Abdominal cramps, localized abdominal pain, fever, flank pain, generalized pain, headache, localized edema, and moniliasis. Digestive system: Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Skin: Nonapplication-site pruritis, rash, application-site pain, and application-site pruritis. Other clindamycin formulations The overall systemic exposure to clindamycin from CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules is substantially lower than the systemic exposure from therapeutic doses of oral clindamycin hydrochloride (two-fold to 20-fold lower) or parenteral clindamycin phosphate (40-fold to 50-fold lower). (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.) Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral or parenteral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin and may also occur following administration of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and pseudomembranous colitis. (See WARNINGS.) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances. There have been reports of pseudomembranous colitis following the administration of clindamycin vaginal cream."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials In clinical trials, 3 (0.5%) of 589 nonpregnant women who received treatment with CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Adverse events judged to have a reasonable possibility of having been caused by clindamycin phosphate vaginal suppositories were reported for 10.5% of patients. Events reported by 1% or more of patients receiving CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules were as follows: Urogenital system: Vulvovaginal disorder (3.4%), vaginal pain (1.9%), and vaginal moniliasis (1.5%). Body as a whole: Fungal infection (1.0%). Other events reported by <1% of patients included: Urogenital system: Menstrual disorder, dysuria, pyelonephritis, vaginal discharge, and vaginitis/vaginal infection. Body as a whole: Abdominal cramps, localized abdominal pain, fever, flank pain, generalized pain, headache, localized edema, and moniliasis. Digestive system: Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Skin: Nonapplication-site pruritis, rash, application-site pain, and application-site pruritis. Other clindamycin formulations The overall systemic exposure to clindamycin from CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules is substantially lower than the systemic exposure from therapeutic doses of oral clindamycin hydrochloride (two-fold to 20-fold lower) or parenteral clindamycin phosphate (40-fold to 50-fold lower). (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.) Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral or parenteral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin and may also occur following administration of CLEOCIN Vaginal Ovules: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and pseudomembranous colitis. (See WARNINGS.) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances. There have been reports of pseudomembranous colits following the administration of clindamycin vaginal cream."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials Non-pregnant Women In clinical trials involving non-pregnant women, 1.8% of 600 patients who received treatment with CLEOCIN Vaginal Cream 2% for 3 days and 2.7% of 1325 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 20.7% of the patients receiving treatment for 3 days and 21.3% of the patients receiving treatment for 7 days. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% are shown in Table 1. TABLE 1 - Events Occurring in >=1% of Non-pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% Event CLEOCIN Vaginal Cream 3 Day n=600 7 Day n=1325 Urogenital Vaginal moniliasis 7.7 10.4 Vulvovaginitis 6.0 4.4 Vulvovaginal disorder 3.2 5.3 Trichomonal vaginitis 0 1.3 Body as a Whole Moniliasis (body) 1.3 0.2 Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% groups include: Urogenital system: vaginal discharge, metrorrhagia, urinary tract infection, endometriosis, menstrual disorder, vaginitis/vaginal infection, and vaginal pain. Body as a whole: localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, abdominal cramps, halitosis, headache, bacterial infection, inflammatory swelling, allergic reaction, and fungal infection. Digestive system: nausea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal disorder. Endocrine system: hyperthyroidism. Central nervous system: dizziness and vertigo. Respiratory system: epistaxis. Skin: pruritus (non-application site), moniliasis, rash, maculopapular rash, erythema, and urticaria. Special senses: taste perversion. Pregnant Women In a clinical trial involving pregnant women during the second trimester, 1.7% of 180 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 22.8% of pregnant patients. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving either clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% or placebo are shown in Table 2. TABLE 2 - Events Occurring in >=1% of Pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% or Placebo Event CLEOCIN Vaginal Cream Placebo 7 DAY n=180 7 DAY n=184 Urogenital Vaginal moniliasis 13.3 7.1 Vulvovaginal disorder 6.7 7.1 Abnormal labor 1.1 0.5 Body as a Whole Fungal infection 1.7 0 Skin Pruritus, non-application site 1.1 0 Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% group include: Urogenital system: dysuria, metrorrhagia, vaginal pain, and trichomonal vaginitis. Body as a whole: upper respiratory infection. Skin: pruritus (topical application site) and erythema. Post-marketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. In the post-marketing period, there have been case reports of pseudomembranous colitis with the use of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream. Other clindamycin formulations Clindamycin vaginal cream affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure (AUCs) of clindamycin compared to 100 mg oral clindamycin dosing. Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently. Data from well-controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis. (See WARNINGS.) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials Non-pregnant Women: In clinical trials involving non-pregnant women, 1.8% of 600 patients who received treatment with clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% for 3 days and 2.7% of 1325 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 20.7% of the patients receiving treatment for 3 days and 21.3% of the patients receiving treatment for 7 days. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% are shown in Table 1. Events Occuring in >= 1% of Non-pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% Events Occuring in >= 1% of Non-pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% groups include: Urogenital system: vaginal discharge, metrorrhagia, urinary tract infection, endometriosis, menstrual disorder, vaginitis/vaginal infection, and vaginal pain. Body as a whole: localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, abdominal cramps, halitosis, headache, bacterial infection, inflammatory swelling, allergic reaction, and fungal infection. Digestive system: nausea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal disorder. Endocrine system: hyperthyroidism. Central nervous system: dizziness and vertigo. Respiratory system: epistaxis. Skin: pruritus (non-application site), moniliasis, rash, maculopapular rash, erythema, and urticaria. Special senses: taste perversion. Figure Pregnant Women: In a clinical trial involving pregnant women during the second trimester, 1.7% of 180 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 22.8% of pregnant patients. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving either clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% or placebo are shown in Table 2. Events Occuring in >= 1% of Pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% or Placebo Events Occuring in >= 1% of Pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% or Placebo Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% group include: Urogenital system: dysuria, metrorrhagia, vaginal pain, and trichomonal vaginitis. Body as a whole: upper respiratory infection. Skin: pruritus (topical application site) and erythema. Figure Other clindamycin formulations: Clindamycin vaginal cream affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure (AUCs) of clindamycin compared to 100 mg oral clindamycin dosing. Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently. Data from well-controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. (See WARNINGS.) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials Non-pregnant Women: In clinical trials involving non-pregnant women, 1.8% of 600 patients who received treatment with clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% for 3 days and 2.7% of 1325 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 20.7% of the patients receiving treatment for 3 days and 21.3% of the patients receiving treatment for 7 days. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% are shown in Table 1. Events Occuring in >= 1% of Non-pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% groups include: Urogenital system: vaginal discharge, metrorrhagia, urinary tract infection, endometriosis, menstrual disorder, vaginitis/vaginal infection, and vaginal pain. Body as a whole: localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, abdominal cramps, halitosis, headache, bacterial infection, inflammatory swelling, allergic reaction, and fungal infection. Digestive system: nausea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal disorder. Endocrine system: hyperthyroidism. Central nervous system: dizziness and vertigo. Respiratory system: epistaxis. Skin: pruritus (non-application site), moniliasis, rash, maculopapular rash, erythema, and urticaria. Special senses: taste perversion. Figure Pregnant Women: In a clinical trial involving pregnant women during the second trimester, 1.7% of 180 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 22.8% of pregnant patients. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving either clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% or placebo are shown in Table 2. Events Occuring in >= 1% of Pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% or Placebo Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% group include: Urogenital system: dysuria, metrorrhagia, vaginal pain, and trichomonal vaginitis. Body as a whole: upper respiratory infection. Skin: pruritus (topical application site) and erythema. Figure Other clindamycin formulations: Clindamycin vaginal cream affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure (AUCs) of clindamycin compared to 100 mg oral clindamycin dosing. Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently. Data from well-controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. (See WARNINGS.) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials Non-pregnant Women: In clinical trials involving non-pregnant women, 1.8% of 600 patients who received treatment with clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% for 3 days and 2.7% of 1,325 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 20.7% of the patients receiving treatment for 3 days and 21.3% of the patients receiving treatment for 7 days. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% are shown in Table 1 . Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% groups include: Urogenital system: vaginal discharge, metrorrhagia, urinary tract infection, endometriosis, menstrual disorder, vaginitis/vaginal infection, and vaginal pain. Body as a whole: localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, abdominal cramps, halitosis, headache, bacterial infection, inflammatory swelling, allergic reaction, and fungal infection. Digestive system: nausea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal disorder. Endocrine system: hyperthyroidism. Central nervous system: dizziness and vertigo. Respiratory system: epistaxis. Skin: pruritus (non-application site), moniliasis, rash, maculopapular rash, erythema, and urticaria. Special senses: taste perversion. table 1 Pregnant Women: In a clinical trial involving pregnant women during the second trimester, 1.7% of 180 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 22.8% of pregnant patients. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving either clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% or placebo are shown in Table 2 . Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% group include: Urogenital system: dysuria, metrorrhagia, vaginal pain, and trichomonal vaginitis. Body as a whole: upper respiratory infection. Skin: pruritus (topical application site) and erythema. table 2 Other clindamycin formulations: Clindamycin vaginal cream affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure (AUCs) of clindamycin compared to 100 mg oral clindamycin dosing. Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently. Data from well-controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. (See WARNINGS. ) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials Non-pregnant Women In clinical trials involving non-pregnant women, 1.8% of 600 patients who received treatment with clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% for 3 days and 2.7% of 1325 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 20.7% of the patients receiving treatment for 3 days and 21.3% of the patients receiving treatment for 7 days. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% are shown in Table 1. TABLE 1 - Events Occurring in >=1% of Non-pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream Event 3 Day n=600 7 Day n=1325 Urogenital Vaginal moniliasis 7.7 10.4 Vulvovaginitis 6.0 4.4 Vulvovaginal disorder 3.2 5.3 Trichomonal vaginitis 0 1.3 Body as a Whole Moniliasis (body) 1.3 0.2 Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% groups include: Urogenital system: vaginal discharge, metrorrhagia, urinary tract infection, endometriosis, menstrual disorder, vaginitis/vaginal infection, and vaginal pain. Body as a whole: localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, abdominal cramps, halitosis, headache, bacterial infection, inflammatory swelling, allergic reaction, and fungal infection. Digestive system: nausea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal disorder. Endocrine system: hyperthyroidism. Central nervous system: dizziness and vertigo. Respiratory system: epistaxis. Skin:: pruritus (non-application site), moniliasis, rash, maculopapular rash, erythema, and urticaria. Special senses: taste perversion. Pregnant Women In a clinical trial involving pregnant women during the second trimester, 1.7% of 180 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 22.8% of pregnant patients. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving either clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% or placebo are shown in Table 2. TABLE 2 - Events Occurring in >=1% of Pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% or Placebo Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream Placebo Event 7 DAY n=180 7 DAY n=184 Urogenital Vaginal moniliasis 13.3 7.1 Vulvovaginal disorder 6.7 7.1 Abnormal labor 1.1 0.5 Body as a Whole Fungal infection 1.7 0 Skin Pruritus, non-application site 1.1 0 Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% group include: Urogenital system: dysuria, metrorrhagia, vaginal pain, and trichomonal vaginitis. Body as a whole: upper respiratory infection. Skin: pruritus (topical application site) and erythema. Post-marketing Experience In the post-marketing period, there have been case reports of pseudomembranous colitis with the use of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream. The frequency of pseudomembranous colitis is not known. Other clindamycin formulations Clindamycin vaginal cream affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure (AUCs) of clindamycin compared to 100 mg oral clindamycin dosing. Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently. Data from well-controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis. (See WARNINGS.) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials Non-pregnant Women: In clinical trials involving non-pregnant women, 1.8% of 600 patients who received treatment with clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% for 3 days and 2.7% of 1325 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 20.7% of the patients receiving treatment for 3 days and 21.3% of the patients receiving treatment for 7 days. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% are shown in Table 1. Table 1- Events Occurring in >=1% of Non-pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% groups include: Urogenital system: vaginal discharge, metrorrhagia, urinary tract infection, endometriosis, menstrual disorder, vaginitis/vaginal infection, and vaginal pain. Body as a whole: localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, abdominal cramps, halitosis, headache, bacterial infection, inflammatory swelling, allergic reaction, and fungal infection. Digestive system: nausea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal disorder. Endocrine system: hyperthyroidism. Central nervous system: dizziness and vertigo. Respiratory system: epistaxis. Skin: pruritus (non-application site), moniliasis, rash, maculopapular rash, erythema, and urticaria. Special senses: taste perversion. Table 1 Pregnant Women: In a clinical trial involving pregnant women during the second trimester, 1.7% of 180 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug-related adverse events. Medical events judged to be related, probably related, possibly related, or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2%, were reported for 22.8% of pregnant patients. Events occurring in >=1% of patients receiving either clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2% or placebo are shown in Table 2. Table 2- Events Occurring in >=1% of Pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2% or Placebo Other events occurring in <1% of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2% group include: Urogenital system: dysuria, metrorrhagia, vaginal pain, and trichomonal vaginitis. Body as a whole: upper respiratory infection. Skin: pruritus (topical application site) and erythema. Table 2 Other clindamycin formulations: Clindamycin vaginal cream affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure (AUCs) of clindamycin compared to 100 mg oral clindamycin dosing. Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral clindamycin, the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently. Data from well-controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available. The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin: Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, esophagitis, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. (See WARNINGS.) Hematopoietic: Transient neutropenia (leukopenia), eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy. Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions. Rare instances of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with clindamycin. A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Liver: Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy. Musculoskeletal: Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported. Renal: Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, all patients were graded for facial erythema, peeling, burning, and dryness on the following scale: 0 = absent, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, and 3 = severe. The percentage of patients that had symptoms present before treatment (at baseline) and during treatment were as follows: Local reactions with use of clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5% % of patients using clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5% with symptom present Combined results from 5 studies (n=397) Before Treatment (Baseline) During Treatment Mild Moderate Severe Mild Moderate Severe (Percentages derived by # subjects with symptom score/# enrolled clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5% subjects, n = 397). Erythema 28% 3% 0 26% 5% 0 Peeling 6% <1% 0 17% 2% 0 Burning 3% <1% 0 5% <1% 0 Dryness 6% <1% 0 15% 1% 0 Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, has been reported in postmarketing use with clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, 1.2%/5%. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse event in the BenzaClin treatment group was dry skin (12%). The Table below lists local adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients in the BenzaClin and vehicle groups. Local Adverse Events - all causalities in >/= 1% of patients BenzaClin n = 420 Vehicle n = 168 Application site reaction 13 (3%) 1 (<1%) Dry skin 50 (12%) 10 (6%) Pruritus 8 (2%) 1 (<1%) Peeling 9 (2%) - Erythema 6 (1%) 1 (<1%) Sunburn 5 (1%) - The actual incidence of dry skin might have been greater were it not for the use of a moisturizer in these studies. Hypersensitivity/allergic reactions (including facial swelling and urticaria) have been reported in post-marketing use with BenzaClin Topical Gel. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse event in the BenzaClin treatment group was dry skin (12%). The Table below lists local adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients in the BenzaClin and vehicle groups. Local Adverse Events - all causalities in >/= 1% of patients BenzaClin Vehicle n = 420 n = 168 Application site reaction 13 (3%) 1 (<1%) Dry skin 50 (12%) 10 (6%) Pruritus 8 (2%) 1 (<1%) Peeling 9 (2%) - Erythema 6 (1%) 1 (<1%) Sunburn 5 (1%) - The actual incidence of dry skin might have been greater were it not for the use of a moisturizer in these studies. Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, have been reported during post-marketing use of clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse event in the clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide topical gel, 1%/5% treatment group was dry skin (12%). The Table below lists local adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients in the clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide topical gel, 1%/5% and vehicle groups. Local Adverse Events - all causalities in >/= 1% of patients Clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide topical gel, 1%/5% n=420 Vehicle n=168 Application site reaction 13 (3%) 1 (<1%) Dry skin 50 (12%) 10 (6%) Pruritus 8 (2%) 1 (<1%) Peeling 9 (2%) - Erythema 6 (1%) 1 (<1%) Sunburn 5 (1%) - The actual incidence of dry skin might have been greater were it not for the use of a moisturizer in these studies. Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, have been reported during post-marketing use of clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse event in the Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% treatment group was dry skin (12%). The Table below lists local adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients in the Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% and vehicle groups. Local Adverse Events - all causalities in >/= 1% of patients Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% n = 420 Vehicle n = 168 Application Site Reaction 13 (3%) 1 (< 1%) Dry Skin 50 (12%) 10 (6%) Pruritis 8 (2%) 1 (< 1%) Peeling 9 (2%) - Erythema 6 (1%) 1 (< 1%) Sunburn 5 (1%) - The actual incidence of dry skin might have been greater were it not for the use of a moisturizer in these studies. Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, have been reported during post-marketing use of clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of CLEOCIN T using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553(%) Gel n=148(%) Lotion n=160(%) # not recorded Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 ( 7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # ( - ) # ( - ) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 ( 7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 ( 1) 26 (18) 12of 126 subjects (10) Peeling 61 (11) # ( - ) 11 ( 7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553 (%) Gel n=148 (%) Lotion n=160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) not recorded (-) (-) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 (7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12of 126 subjects(10) Peeling 61 (11) (-) 11 (7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of Clindamycin Phosphate Topical Solution USP, 1% using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553(%) Gel n=148(%) Lotion n=160(%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # (-) # (-) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 (7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12* (10) Peeling 61 (11) # (-) 11 (7) # not recorded * of 126 subjects Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of patients reporting events # not recorded * of 126 subjects Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution Gel Lotion n=553 (%) n=148 (%) n=160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 ( 7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # ( -) # ( -) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 ( 7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 ( 1) 26 (18) 12* (10) Peeling 61 (11) # ( -) 11 ( 7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events # not recorded * of 126 subjects Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution Gel Lotion n=553 (%) n=148 (%) n=160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 ( 7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # ( -) # ( -) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 ( 7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 ( 1) 26 (18) 12* (10) Peeling 61 (11) # ( -) 11 ( 7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin. (see WARNINGS .) Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of Clindamycin Phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of patients reporting events # not recorded * of 126 subjects Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution Gel Lotion n=553 (%) n=148 (%) n=160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # (-) # (-) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 (7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12* (10) Peeling 61 (11) # (-) 11 (7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events # not recorded * of 126 subjects Treatment Emergent Solution Gel Lotion Adverse Event n=553 (%) n=148 (%) n=160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 ( 7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # ( -) # ( -) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 ( 7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 ( 1) 26 (18) 12* (10) Peeling 61 (11) # ( -) 11 ( 7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin. (see WARNINGS .) Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553(%) Gel n=148(%) Lotion n=160(%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) not recorded( - ) ( - ) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 ( 7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12of 126 subjects(10) Peeling 61 (11) ( - ) 11 ( 7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553(%) Gel n=148(%) Lotion n=160(%) # not recorded Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 ( 7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # (\\342\\210\\222) # (\\342\\210\\222) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 ( 7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 ( 1) 26 (18) 12of 126 subjects (10) Peeling 61 (11) # (\\342\\210\\222) 11 ( 7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS). Abdominal pain, gastrointestinal disturbances, gram-negative folliculitis, eye pain and contact dermatitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table]. Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis, eye pain and contact dermatitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact G&W Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-922-1038 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of topical clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events # not recorded * of 126 subjects Treatment Emergent Solution Gel Lotion Adverse Event n= 553 (%) n= 148 (%) n= 160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # ( - ) # ( - ) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 (7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12*(10) Peeling 61 (11) # ( - ) 11 (7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of topical clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553 (%) Gel n=148 (%) Lotion n=160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # (-) # (-) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 (7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12* (10) Peeling 61 (11) # (-) 11 (7) # not recorded * of 126 subjects Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of topical clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. NUMBER OF PATIENTS REPORTING EVENTS Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n = 553 (%) Gel n = 148 (%) Lotion n = 160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # (-) # (-) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 (7) 22 (14) Oilliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12* (10) Peeling 61 (11) # (-) 11 (7) # not recorded * of 126 subjects Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of topical clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553 (%) Gel n=148 (%) Lotion n=160 (%) Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 (7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) not recorded ( - ) ( - ) Dryness 105 (19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 (7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 (1) 26 (18) 12of 126 subjects (10) Peeling 61 (11) ( - ) 11 (7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of topical clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin. table 1"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various topical clindamycin formulations of clindamycin phosphate using placebo vehicle and/or active comparator drugs as controls, patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [see table below]. Number of Patients Reporting Events Treatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n=553 (%) Gel n=148 (%) Suspension n=160 (%) # not recorded * of 126 subjects Burning 62 (11) 15 (10) 17 (11) Itching 36 ( 7) 15 (10) 17 (11) Burning/Itching 60 (11) # ( - ) # ( - ) Dryness 105(19) 34 (23) 29 (18) Erythema 86 (16) 10 ( 7) 22 (14) Oiliness/Oily Skin 8 ( 1) 26 (18) 12*(10) Peeling 61 (11) # ( - ) 11 ( 7) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS ). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances as well as gram-negative folliculitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the one well-controlled clinical study comparing Clindagel(R) and its vehicle, the incidence of skin and appendages adverse events occuring in >=1% of the patients in either group is presented below: Body System/Adverse Event Number(%) of Patients/Clindagel(R)QD N=168 Vehicle Gel QD N=84 Skin and appendages disorders Dermatitis 0 (0.0) 1 (1.2) Dermatitis Contact 0 (0.0) 1 (1.2) Dermatitis fungal 0 (0.0) 1 (1.2) Folliculitis 0 (0.0) 1 (1.2) Photosensitivity reaction 0 (0.0) 1 (1.2) Pruritus 1 (0.6) 1 (1.2) Rash erythematous 0 (0.0) 0 (0.0) Skin dry 0 (0.0) 0 (0.0) Peeling 1 (0.6) 0 (0.0) Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis, which may end fatally. Cases of diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin (see WARNINGS). Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal disturbances, as well as gram-negative folliculitis, have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulation of clindamycin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Onset Dermatologics, LLC at 1-800-978-5060 and/or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"Drug Interactions - Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"Drug Interactions: Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
"Drug Interactions Systemic clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents."$$
