
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested. (5.1) Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. (5.1) Systemic absorption may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression. Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops. (5.1) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids. (5.1,8.48.4) Local adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids, including clobetasol propionate. These reactions include: folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae and miliaria. (5.2) CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE Topical Solution USP, 0.05% (Spray) is flammable, keep away from heat or flame. (5.5) 5.1 Effects on the Endocrine System Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid. In studies evaluating the potential for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, using the Cosyntropin Stimulation Test, clobetasol propionate topical solution USP, 0.05% (spray) demonstrated rates of suppression that were comparable after 2 and 4 weeks of twice-daily use (19% and 15-20%, respectively), in adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (>= 20%BSA). In these studies, HPA axis suppression was defined as serum cortisol level <=18 \\316\\274g/dL 30-min post cosyntropin stimulation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. Because of the potential for systemic absorption, use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids, use over large surface areas, use over prolonged periods, use under occlusion, use on an altered skin barrier, and use in patients with liver failure. An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. If HPA axis suppression is documented, an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent steroid. Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. Use of more than one corticosteroid-containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids. [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. 5.2 Local Adverse Reaction with Topical Corticosteroids The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids, including clobetasol propionate. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae and miliaria. 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing. 5.4 Concomitant Skin Infections In the presence of dermatological infections, the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, use of clobetasol propionate topical solution USP, 0.05% (spray) should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled. 5.5 Flammable Contents Clobetasol propionate topical solution USP, 0.05% (spray) is flammable; keep away from heat or flame."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested. (5.1) Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. (5.1) Systemic absorption may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression. Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops. (5.1) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids. (5.1, 8.4) Local adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids, including clobetasol propionate. These reactions include: folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae and miliaria. (5.2) Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05% is flammable, keep away from heat or flame. (5.5) 5.1 Effects on the Endocrine System Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid. In studies evaluating the potential for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, using the Cosyntropin Stimulation Test, Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05% demonstrated rates of suppression that were comparable after 2 and 4 weeks of twice-daily use (19% and 15-20%, respectively), in adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (>=20% BSA). In these studies, HPA axis suppression was defined as serum cortisol level <=18 \\316\\274g/dL 30-min post cosyntropin stimulation [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. Because of the potential for systemic absorption, use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids, use over large surface areas, use over prolonged periods, use under occlusion, use on an altered skin barrier, and use in patients with liver failure. An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. If HPA axis suppression is documented, an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent steroid. Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. Use of more than one corticosteroid-containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. 5.2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids, including clobetasol propionate. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae and miliaria. 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing. 5.4 Concomitant Skin Infections In the presence of dermatological infections, the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, use of Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05% should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled. 5.5 Flammable Contents Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05% is flammable; keep away from heat or flame."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested.(5.1) Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids.(5.1) Systemic absorption may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression. Modify use if HPA axis suppression develops.(5.1) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids.(5.1, 8.4) Local adverse reactions with topical corticosteroids may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids, including clobetasol propionate. These reactions include: folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae and miliaria.(5.2) CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05% is flammable, keep away from heat or flame.(5.5) 5.1 Effects on the Endocrine System Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at the lowest doses tested. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid. In studies evaluating the potential for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, using the Cosyntropin Stimulation Test, CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05% demonstrated rates of suppression that were comparable after 2 and 4 weeks of twice-daily use (19% and 15-20%, respectively), in adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (>= 20% BSA). In these studies, HPA axis suppression was defined as serum cortisol level <=18 \\316\\274g/dL 30-min post cosyntropin stimulation see [Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. Because of the potential for systemic absorption, use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids, use over large surface areas, use over prolonged periods, use under occlusion, use on an altered skin barrier, and use in patients with liver failure. An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. If HPA axis suppression is documented, an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent steroid. Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. Use of more than one corticosteroid-containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic corticosteroid exposure. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from use of topical corticosteroids see [Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids, including clobetasol propionate. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae and miliaria. 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing. 5.4 Concomitant Skin Infections In the presence of dermatological infections, the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, use of CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05% should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled. 5.5 Flammable Contents CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05% is flammable; keep away from heat or flame."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled, clinical trials with Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05%, the most common adverse reactions (incidence > 2%) were burning, pruritus, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled, clinical trials with Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05%, the most common adverse reaction was burning at the site of application [40% of subjects treated with Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05% and 47% of subjects treated with Spray Vehicle]. Other commonly reported adverse reactions for Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05% and Spray Vehicle, respectively, are noted in Table 1. Most local adverse reactions were rated as mild to moderate and they are not affected by age, race or gender. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia,and glucosuria in some patients. 52963-0-table-01 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of Clobetasol Propionate Spray, 0.05%. Skin: Burning, pruritus, erythema, pain, irritation, rash, peeling, urticaria, and contact dermatitis."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled, clinical trials with CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE Topical Solution USP, 0.05% (Spray), the most common adverse reactions (incidence > 2%) were burning, pruritus, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 orwww.fda.gov/ medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled, clinical trials with clobetasol propionate topical solution USP, 0.05% (spray), the most common adverse reaction was burning at the site of application [40% of subjects treated with clobetasol propionate topical solution USP, 0.05% (spray) and 47% of subjects treated with Spray Vehicle]. Other commonly reported adverse reactions for clobetasol propionate topical solution USP, 0.05% (spray) and Spray Vehicle, respectively, are noted in Table 1. Table 1 - Commonly Occurring Adverse Reactions (>=1% Incidence) Most local adverse reactions were rated as mild to moderate and they are not affected by age, race or gender. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glycosuria in some patients. Table 1 6.2 Postmaketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of clobetasol propionate topical solution USP, 0.05% (spray). Skin: Burning, pruritus, erythema, pain, irritation, rash, peeling, urticaria, and contact dermatitis."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled, clinical trials with CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05%, the most common adverse reactions (incidence > 2%) were burning, pruritus, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Galderma Laboratories, L.P. at 1-866-735-4137 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled, clinical trials with CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05%, the most common adverse reaction was burning at the site of application [40% of subjects treated with CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05% and 47% of subjects treated with Spray Vehicle]. Other commonly reported adverse reactions for CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05% and Spray Vehicle, respectively, are noted in Table 1. Table 1 - Commonly Occurring Adverse Reactions (>=1% Incidence) Clobetasol Propionate Vehicle Spray Adverse Reaction 0.05% Spray (N=120) (N=120) System Organ Class General disorders and administration site conditions 50 (42%) 56 (47%) Application site burning 48 (40%) 56 (47%) Application site dryness 2 (2%) 0 (0%) Application site irritation 1 (1%) 0 (0%) Application site pain 1 (1%) 2 (2%) Application site pigmentation changes 1 (1%) 0 (0%) Application site pruritus 4 (3%) 3 (3%) Infections and infestations 17 (14%) 12 (10%) Nasopharyngitis 6 (5%) 3 (3%) Pharyngitis streptococcal 1 (1%) 0 (0%) Upper respiratory tract infection 10 (8%) 2 (2%) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 4 (3%) 2 (2%) Eczema asteatotic 2 (2%) 0 (0%) Most local adverse reactions were rated as mild to moderate and they are not affected by age, race or gender. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of CLOBEX(R) Spray, 0.05%. Skin: Burning, pruritus, erythema, pain, irritation, rash, peeling, urticaria, and contact dermatitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled, clinical trials with CLOBEX(R) (clobetasol propionate) Spray, 0.05%, the most common adverse reaction was burning at the site of application [40% of subjects treated with CLOBEX(R) (clobetasol propionate) Spray, 0.05% and 47% of subjects treated with Spray Vehicle]. Other commonly reported adverse reactions for CLOBEX(R) (clobetasol propionate) Spray, 0.05% and Spray Vehicle, respectively, are noted in Table 2. Table 2 - Commonly Occurring Adverse Events Clobetasol Propionate Vehicle Spray Adverse Reaction 0.05% Spray (N=120) (N=120) System Organ Class General disorders and administration site conditions 50 (42%) 56 (47%) Application site atrophy 0 (0%) 1 (1%) Application site burning 48 (40%) 56 (47%) Application site dryness 2 (2%) 0 (0%) Application site irritation 1 (1%) 0 (0%) Application site pain 1 (1%) 2 (2%) Application site pigmentation changes 1 (1%) 0 (0%) Application site pruritus 4 (3%) 3 (3%) Infections and infestations 17 (14%) 12 (10%) Influenza 0 (0%) 2 (2%) Nasopharyngitis 6 (5%) 3 (3%) Pharyngitis streptococcal 1 (1%) 0 (0%) Upper respiratory tract infection 10 (8%) 2 (2%) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 4 (3%) 2 (2%) Eczema asteatotic 2 (2%) 0 (0%) Other adverse events occurred at rates less than 1.0%. Most local adverse events were rated as mild to moderate and they are not affected by age, race or gender. The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids, including clobetasol propionate. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae and miliaria. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients."$$
