"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of the treatment. Risk factor(s) are: use of high-potency topical corticosteroid, use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion, prolonged use, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1, 8.4) - Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. (5.1, 8.4) - The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended. (5.2) 5.1 Effects on Endocrine System Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream can cause reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment. Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur due to the systemic effect of corticosteroids while on treatment. Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high-potency steroids, large treatment surface areas, prolonged use, use of occlusive dressing, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Because of the potential for systemic corticosteroid effects, patients may need to be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. This may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. In a small trial, clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied using large dosages, 7 g daily for 14 days (BID) to the crural area of normal adult subjects. Three of the 8 normal subjects on whom clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment. One of these subjects had an abnormal cosyntropin test. The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered 1 week after discontinuing dosing. In addition, 2 separate trials in pediatric subjects demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. If HPA axis suppression is documented, gradually withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin-surface-to-body mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.2 Diaper Dermatitis The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate cream can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of the treatment. Risk factor(s) are: use of high-potency topical corticosteroid, use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion, prolonged use, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1, 8.4) Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. (5.1, 8.4) The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended. (5.2) 5.1 Effects on Endocrine System Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate cream can cause reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment. Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur due to the systemic effect of corticosteroids while on treatment. Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high-potency steroids, large treatment surface areas, prolonged use, use of occlusive dressing, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Because of the potential for systemic corticosteroid effects, patients may need to be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. This may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. In a small trial, clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied using large dosages, 7 g daily for 14 days (BID) to the crural area of normal adult subjects. Three of the 8 normal subjects on whom clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment. One of these subjects had an abnormal cosyntropin test. The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered 1 week after discontinuing dosing. In addition, 2 separate trials in pediatric subjects demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. If HPA axis suppression is documented, gradually withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin-surface-to-body mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.2 Diaper Dermatitis The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of the treatment. Risk factor(s) are: use of high-potency topical corticosteroid, use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion, prolonged use, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1, 8.4) Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. (5.1, 8.4) The use of Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended. (5.2) 5.1 Effects on Endocrine System Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream can cause reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment. Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur due to the systemic effect of corticosteroids while on treatment. Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high-potency steroids, large treatment surface areas, prolonged use, use of occlusive dressing, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Because of the potential for systemic corticosteroid effects, patients may need to be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. This may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. In a small trial, clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied using large dosages, 7 g daily for 14 days (BID) to the crural area of normal adult subjects. Three of the 8 normal subjects on whom clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment. One of these subjects had an abnormal cosyntropin test. The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered 1 week after discontinuing dosing. In addition, 2 separate trials in pediatric subjects demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. If HPA axis suppression is documented, gradually withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin-surface-to-body mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. 5.2 Diaper Dermatitis The use of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of the treatment. Risk factor(s) are: use of high-potency topical corticosteroid, use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion, prolonged use, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. ( 5.1 , 8.4 ) -Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. ( 5.1 , 8.4 ) -The use of Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended. ( 5.2 ) 5.1 Effects on Endocrine System Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) can cause reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment. Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur due to the systemic effect of corticosteroids while on treatment. Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high-potency steroids, large treatment surface areas, prolonged use, use of occlusive dressing, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Because of the potential for systemic corticosteroid effects, patients may need to be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. This may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. In a small trial, Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) was applied using large dosages, 7 g daily for 14 days (BID) to the crural area of normal adult subjects. Three of the 8 normal subjects on whom Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment. One of these subjects had an abnormal cosyntropin test. The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered 1 week after discontinuing dosing. In addition, 2 separate trials in pediatric subjects demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. If HPA axis suppression is documented, gradually withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin-surface-to-body mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. 5.2 Diaper Dermatitis The use of Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of the treatment. Risk factor(s) are: use of high-potency topical corticosteroid, use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion, prolonged use, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. ( , ) - 5.1 8.4 Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. ( , ) - 5.1 8.4 The use of Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended. ( ) - 5.2 5.1 Effects on Endocrine System Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) can cause reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment. Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur due to the systemic effect of corticosteroids while on treatment. Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high-potency steroids, large treatment surface areas, prolonged use, use of occlusive dressing, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Because of the potential for systemic corticosteroid effects, patients may need to be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. This may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. In a small trial, Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) was applied using large dosages, 7 g daily for 14 days (BID) to the crural area of normal adult subjects. Three of the 8 normal subjects on whom Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment. One of these subjects had an abnormal cosyntropin test. The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered 1 week after discontinuing dosing. In addition, 2 separate trials in pediatric subjects demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing [see ]. Use in Specific Populations (8.4) If HPA axis suppression is documented, gradually withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin-surface-to-body mass ratios [see ]. Use in Specific Populations (8.4) 5.2 Diaper Dermatitis The use of Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS LOTRISONE cream can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of the treatment. Risk factor(s) are: use of high-potency topical corticosteroid, use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion, prolonged use, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1, 8.4) Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. (5.1, 8.4) The use of LOTRISONE cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended. (5.2) 5.1 Effects on Endocrine System LOTRISONE cream can cause reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment. Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur due to the systemic effect of corticosteroids while on treatment. Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high-potency steroids, large treatment surface areas, prolonged use, use of occlusive dressing, altered skin barrier, liver failure, and young age. Because of the potential for systemic corticosteroid effects, patients may need to be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. This may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test. In a small trial, LOTRISONE cream was applied using large dosages, 7 g daily for 14 days (BID) to the crural area of normal adult subjects. Three of the 8 normal subjects on whom LOTRISONE cream was applied exhibited low morning plasma cortisol levels during treatment. One of these subjects had an abnormal cosyntropin test. The effect on morning plasma cortisol was transient and subjects recovered 1 week after discontinuing dosing. In addition, 2 separate trials in pediatric subjects demonstrated adrenal suppression as determined by cosyntropin testing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. If HPA axis suppression is documented, gradually withdraw the drug, reduce the frequency of application, or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin-surface-to-body mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.2 Diaper Dermatitis The use of LOTRISONE cream in the treatment of diaper dermatitis is not recommended."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) were paraesthesia in 1.9% of patients and rash, edema, and secondary infections each in less than 1% of patients. ( ) 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-800-645-9833 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials common adverse reaction reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) was paresthesia in 1.9% of patients. Adverse reactions reported at a frequency < 1% included rash, edema, and secondary infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) were paraesthesia in 1.9% of patients and rash, edema, and secondary infections each in less than 1% of patients. ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-800-645-9833 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials common adverse reaction reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP, 1%/0.05% (base) was paresthesia in 1.9% of patients. Adverse reactions reported at a frequency < 1% included rash, edema, and secondary infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream were paraesthesia in 1.9% of patients and rash, edema, and secondary infections each in less than 1% of patients. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA at 1-888-721-7115 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials common adverse reaction reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was paresthesia in 1.9% of patients. Adverse reactions reported at a frequency < 1% included rash, edema, and secondary infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream were paraesthesia in 1.9% of patients and rash, edema, and secondary infections each in less than 1% of patients. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials common adverse reaction reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was paresthesia in 1.9% of patients. Adverse reactions reported at a frequency < 1% included rash, edema, and secondary infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream were paraesthesia in 1.9% of patients and rash, edema, and secondary infections each in less than 1% of patients. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Taro at 1-866-923-4914 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials common adverse reaction reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream was paresthesia in 1.9% of patients. Adverse reactions reported at a frequency < 1% included rash, edema, and secondary infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported for LOTRISONE cream were paraesthesia in 1.9% of patients and rash, edema, and secondary infections each in less than 1% of patients. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials common adverse reaction reported for LOTRISONE cream was paresthesia in 1.9% of patients. Adverse reactions reported at a frequency < 1% included rash, edema, and secondary infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Abnormal liver function tests have been reported in patients treated with clotrimazole lozenges; elevated SGOT levels were reported in about 15% of patients in the clinical trials (See Precautions section). Nausea, vomiting, unpleasant mouth sensations and pruritus have also been reported with the use of the lozenge."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Abnormal liver function tests have been reported in patients treated with clotrimazole troches; elevated SGOT levels were reported in about 15% of patients in the clinical trials (See PRECAUTIONS). Nausea, vomiting, unpleasant mouth sensations and pruritus have also been reported with the use of the troche."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONSAdverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in clinical trials were paresthesia in 1.9% of patients, and rash, edema, and secondary infection, each in 1% of patients. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. In the pediatric population, reported adverse events for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream include growth retardation, benign intracranial hypertension, Cushing's syndrome (HPA-axis suppression), and local cutaneous reactions, including skin atrophy. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream in clinical trials were paresthesia in 1.9% of patients, and rash, edema, and secondary infection, each in less than 1% of patients. Adverse reactions reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion in clinical trials were burning and dry skin in 1.6% of patients and stinging in less than 1% of patients. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). In the pediatric population, reported adverse events for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream include growth retardation, benign intracranial hypertension, Cushing's syndrome (HPA axis suppression), and local cutaneous reactions, including skin atrophy. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream in clinical trials were paresthesia in 1.9% of patients, and rash, edema, and secondary infection, each in less than 1% of patients. Adverse reactions reported for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion in clinical trials were burning and dry skin in 1.6% of patients and stinging in less than 1% of patients. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). In the pediatric population, reported adverse events for Clotrimazole and Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream include growth retardation, benign intracranial hypertension, Cushing's syndrome (HPA axis suppression), and local cutaneous reactions, including skin atrophy. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream in clinical trials were paresthesia in 1.9% of patients, and rash, edema, and secondary infection, each in less than 1% of patients. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). In the pediatric population, reported adverse events for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream include growth retardation, benign intracranial hypertension, Cushing's syndrome (HPA axis suppression), and local cutaneous reactions, including skin atrophy. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion in clinical trials were burning and dry skin in 1.6% of patients and stinging in less than 1% of patients. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions reported for clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate lotion in clinical trials were burning and dry skin in 1.6% of patients and stinging in less than 1% of patients. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids and may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, capillary fragility (ecchymoses), telangiectasia, and sensitization (local reactions upon repeated application of product). Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Adverse reactions reported with the use of clotrimazole are as follows: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of clotrimazole: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritius, urticaria, burning, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of clotrimazole: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, burning, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of this product: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritis, urticaria, burning, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of this product: erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, burning, and general irritation of the skin."$$
"Drug Interactions Synergism or antagonism between clotrimazole and nystatin, or amphotericin B, or flucytosine against strains of C. albicans has not been reported."$$
"WARNINGS AMD PRECAUTIONS WARNINGS Clotrimazole Cream is not for ophthalmic use. PRECAUTIONS General If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Clotrimazole Cream, treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. Information for Patients The patient should be advised to: Use the medication for the full treatment time even though the symptoms may have improved. Notify the physician if there is no improvement after four weeks of treatment. Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation (redness, itching, burning, blistering, swelling, oozing) indicative of possible sensitization. Avoid the use of occlusive wrappings or dressings. Avoid sources of infection or reinfection. Laboratory Tests If there is lack of response to Clotrimazole Cream, appropriate microbiological studies should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens before instituting another course of antimycotic therapy. Drug Interactions Synergism or antagonism between clotrimazole and nystatin, or amphotericin B, or flucytosine against strains of C. albicans has not been reported. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility An 18-month oral dosing study with clotrimazole in rats has not revealed any carcinogenic effect. In tests for mutagenesis, chromosomes of the spermatophores of Chinese hamsters which had been exposed to clotrimazole were examined for structural changes during the metaphase. Prior to testing, the hamsters had received five oral clotrimazole doses of 100 mg/kg body weight. The results of this study showed that clotrimazole had no mutagenic effect. Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category BThe disposition of 14C-clotrimazole has been studied in humans and animals. Clotrimazole is very poorly absorbed following dermal application or intravaginal administration to humans. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY) In clinical trials, use of vaginally applied clotrimazole in pregnant women in their second and third trimesters has not been associated with ill effects. There are, however, no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy. Studies in pregnant rats with intravaginal doses up to 100 mg/kg have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to clotrimazole. High oral doses of clotrimazole in rats and mice ranging from 50 to 120 mg/kg resulted in embryotoxicity (possibly secondary to maternal toxicity), impairment of mating, decreased litter size and number of viable young and decreased pup survival to weaning. However, clotrimazole was not teratogenic in mice, rabbits and rats at oral doses up to 200, 180 and 100 mg/kg, respectively. Oral absorption in the rat amounts to approximately 90% of the administered dose. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug should be used only if clearly indicated during the first trimester of pregnancy. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when clotrimazole is used by a nursing woman. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have been established for clotrimazole when used as indicated and in the recommended dosage."$$
