"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Fatal overdoses have been reported with colchicine in adults and children. Keep colchicine capsules out of the reach of children (5.1, 10). Blood dyscrasias: myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported (5.2). Monitor for toxicity and if present consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 10). Drug interaction with dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inhibitors: Co-administration of colchicine with dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in life-threatening interactions and death (5.3, 7). Neuromuscular toxicity: Myotoxicity including rhabdomyolysis may occur, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine capsules (5.4, 7). 5.1 Fatal Overdose Fatal overdoses, both accidental and intentional, have been reported in adults and children who have ingested colchicine [See Overdosage (10) ]. Colchicine capsules should be kept out of the reach of children. 5.2 Blood Dyscrasias Myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported with colchicine used in therapeutic doses. 5.3 Interactions with CYP3A4 and P-gp Inhibitors Because colchicine is a substrate for both the CYP3A4 metabolizing enzyme and the P-glycoprotein efflux transporter, inhibition of either of these pathways may lead to colchicine-related toxicity. Inhibition of both CYP3A4 and P-gp by dual inhibitors such as clarithromycin has been reported to produce life-threatening or fatal colchicine toxicity due to significant increases in systemic colchicine levels. Therefore, concomitant use of colchicine capsules and inhibitors of CYP3A4 or P-glycoprotein should be avoided [See Drug Interactions (7) ]. If avoidance is not possible, reduced daily dose should be considered and the patient should be monitored closely for colchicine toxicity. Use of colchicine capsules in conjunction with drugs that inhibit both P-gp and CYP3A4 is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [See Contraindications (4) ]. 5.4 Neuromuscular Toxicity Neuromuscular toxicity and rhabdomyolysis have been reported from chronic treatment with colchicine in therapeutic doses, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Patients with impaired renal function and elderly patients (even those with normal renal and hepatic function) are at increased risk. Once colchicine treatment is ceased, the symptoms generally resolve within 1 week to several months."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Fatal overdoses have been reported with colchicine in adults and children. Keep Colchicine Tablets, USP out of the reach of children (5.1, 10). - Blood dyscrasias: myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia and aplastic anemia have been reported (5.2). -Monitor for toxicity and if present consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 10). - Drug interaction P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors: Coadministration of colchicine with P-gp and/or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in life-threatening interactions and death (5.3, 7). - Neuromuscular toxicity: Myotoxicity including rhabdomyolysis may occur, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of Colchicine Tablets, USP (5.4, 7). 5.1 Fatal Overdose Fatal overdoses, both accidental and intentional, have been reported in adults and children who have ingested colchicine [see Overdosage (10) ]. Colchicine Tablets, USP should be kept out of the reach of children. 5.2 Blood Dyscrasias Myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia and aplastic anemia have been reported with colchicine used in therapeutic doses. 5.3 Drug Interactions Colchicine is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate. Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine given with P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If treatment with a P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is required in patients with normal renal and hepatic function, the patient's dose of colchicine may need to be reduced or interrupted [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Use of Colchicine Tablets, USP in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (this includes all protease inhibitors except fosamprenavir) is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) ]. 5.4 Neuromuscular Toxicity Colchicine-induced neuromuscular toxicity and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with chronic treatment in therapeutic doses. Patients with renal dysfunction and elderly patients, even those with normal renal and hepatic function, are at increased risk. Concomitant use of atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, fenofibric acid or benzafibrate (themselves associated with myotoxicity) or cyclosporine with Colchicine Tablets, USP may potentiate the development of myopathy [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Once colchicine is stopped, the symptoms generally resolve within one week to several months."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Fatal overdoses have been reported with colchicine in adults and children. Keep COLCRYS out of the reach of children (5.1, 10). - Blood dyscrasias: myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported (5.2). -Monitor for toxicity and if present consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 10). - Drug interaction P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors: Co-administration of colchicine with P-gp and/or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in life-threatening interactions and death (5.3, 7). - Neuromuscular toxicity: Myotoxicity including rhabdomyolysis may occur, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of COLCRYS (5.4, 7). 5.1 Fatal Overdose Fatal overdoses, both accidental and intentional, have been reported in adults and children who have ingested colchicine [see OVERDOSAGE (10) ]. COLCRYS should be kept out of the reach of children. 5.2 Blood Dyscrasias Myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported with colchicine used in therapeutic doses. 5.3 Drug Interactions Colchicine is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate. Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine given with P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If treatment with a P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is required in patients with normal renal and hepatic function, the patient's dose of colchicine may need to be reduced or interrupted [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7) ]. Use of COLCRYS in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (this includes all protease inhibitors, except fosamprenavir) is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) ]. 5.4 Neuromuscular Toxicity Colchicine-induced neuromuscular toxicity and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with chronic treatment in therapeutic doses. Patients with renal dysfunction and elderly patients, even those with normal renal and hepatic function, are at increased risk. Concomitant use of atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, or benzafibrate (themselves associated with myotoxicity) or cyclosporine with COLCRYS may potentiate the development of myopathy [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7) ]. Once colchicine is stopped, the symptoms generally resolve within 1 week to several months."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Fatal overdoses have been reported with colchicine in adults and children. Keep COLCRYS out of the reach of children (5.1, 10). Blood dyscrasias: myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported (5.2). Monitor for toxicity and if present consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 10). Drug interaction P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors: Co-administration of colchicine with P-gp and/or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in life-threatening interactions and death (5.3, 7). Neuromuscular toxicity: Myotoxicity including rhabdomyolysis may occur, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of COLCRYS (5.4, 7). 5.1 Fatal Overdose Fatal overdoses, both accidental and intentional, have been reported in adults and children who have ingested colchicine [see OVERDOSAGE (10) ]. COLCRYS should be kept out of the reach of children. 5.2 Blood Dyscrasias Myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported with colchicine used in therapeutic doses. 5.3 Drug Interactions Colchicine is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate. Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine given with P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If treatment with a P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is required in patients with normal renal and hepatic function, the patient's dose of colchicine may need to be reduced or interrupted [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7) ]. Use of COLCRYS in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (this includes all protease inhibitors, except fosamprenavir) is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) ]. 5.4 Neuromuscular Toxicity Colchicine-induced neuromuscular toxicity and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with chronic treatment in therapeutic doses. Patients with renal dysfunction and elderly patients, even those with normal renal and hepatic function, are at increased risk. Concomitant use of atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, or benzafibrate (themselves associated with myotoxicity) or cyclosporine with COLCRYS may potentiate the development of myopathy [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7) ]. Once colchicine is stopped, the symptoms generally resolve within 1 week to several months."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Fatal overdoses have been reported with colchicine in adults and children. Keep COLCRYS out of the reach of children (5.1, 10). - Blood dyscrasias: myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia and aplastic anemia have been reported (5.2). -Monitor for toxicity and if present consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 10). - Drug interaction P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors: Coadministration of colchicine with P-gp and/or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in life-threatening interactions and death (5.3, 7). - Neuromuscular toxicity: Myotoxicity including rhabdomyolysis may occur, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of COLCRYS (5.4, 7). 5.1 Fatal Overdose Fatal overdoses, both accidental and intentional, have been reported in adults and children who have ingested colchicine [see Overdosage (10) ]. COLCRYS should be kept out of the reach of children. 5.2 Blood Dyscrasias Myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia and aplastic anemia have been reported with colchicine used in therapeutic doses. 5.3 Drug Interactions Colchicine is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate. Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine given with P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If treatment with a P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is required in patients with normal renal and hepatic function, the patient's dose of colchicine may need to be reduced or interrupted [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Use of COLCRYS in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (this includes all protease inhibitors except fosamprenavir) is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) ]. 5.4 Neuromuscular Toxicity Colchicine-induced neuromuscular toxicity and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with chronic treatment in therapeutic doses. Patients with renal dysfunction and elderly patients, even those with normal renal and hepatic function, are at increased risk. Concomitant use of atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, fenofibric acid or benzafibrate (themselves associated with myotoxicity) or cyclosporine with COLCRYS may potentiate the development of myopathy [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Once colchicine is stopped, the symptoms generally resolve within one week to several months."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Fatal overdoses have been reported with colchicine in adults and children. Keep COLCRYS out of the reach of children (5.1, 10). - Blood dyscrasias: myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia and aplastic anemia have been reported (5.2). -Monitor for toxicity and if present consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 10). - Drug interaction P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors: Coadministration of colchicine with P-gp and/or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in life-threatening interactions and death (5.3, 7). - Neuromuscular toxicity: Myotoxicity including rhabdomyolysis may occur, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of COLCRYS (5.4, 7). 5.1 Fatal Overdose Fatal overdoses, both accidental and intentional, have been reported in adults and children who have ingested colchicine [see Overdosage (10)]. COLCRYS should be kept out of the reach of children. 5.2 Blood Dyscrasias Myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia and aplastic anemia have been reported with colchicine used in therapeutic doses. 5.3 Drug Interactions Colchicine is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate. Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine given with P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If treatment with a P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is required in patients with normal renal and hepatic function, the patient's dose of colchicine may need to be reduced or interrupted [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Use of COLCRYS in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (this includes all protease inhibitors except fosamprenavir) is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Neuromuscular Toxicity Colchicine-induced neuromuscular toxicity and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with chronic treatment in therapeutic doses. Patients with renal dysfunction and elderly patients, even those with normal renal and hepatic function, are at increased risk. Concomitant use of atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, fenofibric acid or benzafibrate (themselves associated with myotoxicity) or cyclosporine with COLCRYS may potentiate the development of myopathy [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Once colchicine is stopped, the symptoms generally resolve within one week to several months."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Fatal overdoses have been reported with colchicine in adults and children. Keep MITIGARE(R) out of the reach of children (5.1, 10). Blood dyscrasias: myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported (5.2). Monitor for toxicity and if present consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of colchicine (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6, 10). Drug interaction with dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inhibitors: Co-administration of colchicine with dual P-gp and CYP3A4 inhibitors has resulted in life-threatening interactions and death (5.3, 7). Neuromuscular toxicity: Myotoxicity including rhabdomyolysis may occur, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation of MITIGARE(R) (5.4, 7). 5.1 Fatal Overdose Fatal overdoses, both accidental and intentional, have been reported in adults and children who have ingested colchicine [See Overdosage (10)]. MITIGARE(R) should be kept out of the reach of children. 5.2 Blood Dyscrasias Myelosuppression, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, and aplastic anemia have been reported with colchicine used in therapeutic doses. 5.3 Interactions with CYP3A4 and P-gp Inhibitors Because colchicine is a substrate for both the CYP3A4 metabolizing enzyme and the P-glycoprotein efflux transporter, inhibition of either of these pathways may lead to colchicine-related toxicity. Inhibition of both CYP3A4 and P-gp by dual inhibitors such as clarithromycin has been reported to produce life-threatening or fatal colchicine toxicity due to significant increases in systemic colchicine levels. Therefore, concomitant use of MITIGARE(R) and inhibitors of CYP3A4 or P-glycoprotein should be avoided [See Drug Interactions (7)]. If avoidance is not possible, reduced daily dose should be considered and the patient should be monitored closely for colchicine toxicity. Use of MITIGARE(R) in conjunction with drugs that inhibit both P-gp and CYP3A4 is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [See Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Neuromuscular Toxicity Neuromuscular toxicity and rhabdomyolysis have been reported from chronic treatment with colchicine in therapeutic doses, especially in combination with other drugs known to cause this effect. Patients with impaired renal function and elderly patients (even those with normal renal and hepatic function) are at increased risk. Once colchicine treatment is ceased, the symptoms generally resolve within 1 week to several months."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal disorders are the most common adverse reactions with colchicine. They are often the first signs of toxicity and may indicate that the colchicine dose needs to be reduced or therapy stopped. These include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. Colchicine has been reported to cause neuromuscular toxicity, which may present as muscle pain or weakness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory, and central nervous system. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see Overdosage (10) ]. The following reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible by interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine: Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological: alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia The most commonly reported adverse reactions with colchicine are gastrointestinal symptoms, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-Ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal disorders are the most common adverse reactions with colchicine. They are often the first signs of toxicity and may indicate that the colchicine dose needs to be reduced or therapy stopped. These include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. Colchicine has been reported to cause neuromuscular toxicity, which may present as muscle pain or weakness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory, and central nervous system. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see Overdosage ( 10 )]. The following reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible by interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine: Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological: alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia The most commonly reported adverse reactions with colchicine are gastrointestinal symptoms, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hikma Americas, Inc. at 1-877-233-2001 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial for gout were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Most common adverse reactions (up to 20%) are abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. These effects are usually mild, transient, and reversible upon lowering the dose (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mutual Pharmaceutical Company, Inc. at 1-888-351-3786 or drugsafety@urlpharma.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials of colchicine for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial with COLCRYS for treatment of gout flares were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Gastrointestinal tract adverse effects are the most frequent side effects in patients initiating COLCRYS, usually presenting within 24 hours, and occurring in up to 20% of patients given therapeutic doses. Typical symptoms include cramping, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and vomiting. These events should be viewed as dose-limiting if severe as they can herald the onset of more significant toxicity. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Gout Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying and controlled conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug, and may not predict the rates observed in a broader patient population in clinical practice. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with a gout flare, gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred in 26% of patients using the recommended dose (1.8 mg over 1 hour) of COLCRYS compared to 77% of patients taking a non-recommended high-dose (4.8 mg over 6 hours) of colchicine and 20% of patients taking placebo. Diarrhea was the most commonly reported drug-related gastrointestinal adverse event. As shown in Table 3, diarrhea is associated with COLCRYS treatment. Diarrhea was more likely to occur in patients taking the high-dose regimen than the low-dose regimen. Severe diarrhea occurred in 19% and vomiting occurred in 17% of patients taking the non-recommended high-dose colchicine regimen but did not occur in the recommended low-dose COLCRYS regimen. Table 3 Number (%) of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related Treatment Emergent Adverse Events with an Incidence of >= 2% of Patients in Any Treatment Group MedDRA System Organ Class COLCRYS Dose Placebo MedDRA Preferred Term High (N=52) n (%) Low (N=74) n (%) (N=59) n (%) Number of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related TEAE 40 (77) 27 (37) 16 (27) Gastrointestinal Disorders 40 (77) 19 (26) 12 (20) Diarrhea 40 (77) 17 (23) 8 (14) Nausea 9 (17) 3 (4) 3 (5) Vomiting 9 (17) 0 0 Abdominal Discomfort 0 0 2 (3) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 4 (8) 1 (1) 1 (2) Fatigue 2 (4) 1 (1) 1 (2) Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders 0 3 (4) 2 (3) Gout 0 3 (4) 1 (2) Nervous System Disorders 1 (2) 1 (1.4) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2) 1 (1) 2 (3) Respiratory Thoracic Mediastinal Disorders 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Serious toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory, and central nervous systems. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see OVERDOSAGE (10) ]. The following adverse reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible upon temporarily interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine. Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological: alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial for gout were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Most common adverse reactions (up to 20%) are abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. These effects are usually mild, transient and reversible upon lowering the dose (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Prophylaxis of Gout Flares The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials of colchicine for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial with Colchicine Tablets, USP for treatment of gout flares were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF Gastrointestinal tract adverse effects are the most frequent side effects in patients initiating Colchicine Tablets, USP, usually presenting within 24 hours, and occurring in up to 20% of patients given therapeutic doses. Typical symptoms include cramping, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain and vomiting. These events should be viewed as dose-limiting if severe, as they can herald the onset of more significant toxicity. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Gout Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying and controlled conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not predict the rates observed in a broader patient population in clinical practice. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with a gout flare, gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred in 26% of patients using the recommended dose (1.8 mg over one hour) of Colchicine Tablets, USP compared to 77% of patients taking a nonrecommended high-dose (4.8 mg over six hours) of colchicine and 20% of patients taking placebo. Diarrhea was the most commonly reported drug-related gastrointestinal adverse event. As shown in Table 3, diarrhea is associated with Colchicine Tablets, USP treatment. Diarrhea was more likely to occur in patients taking the high-dose regimen than the low-dose regimen. Severe diarrhea occurred in 19% and vomiting occurred in 17% of patients taking the nonrecommended high-dose colchicine regimen but did not occur in the recommended low-dose Colchicine Tablets, USP regimen. Table 3 Number (%) of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events with an Incidence of >= 2% of Patients in Any Treatment Group MedDRA System Organ Class MedDRA Preferred Term Colchicine Tablets, USP Dose Placebo (N=59) n (%) High (N=52) n (%) Low (N=74) n (%) Number of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related TEAE 40 (77) 27 (37) 16 (27) Gastrointestinal Disorders 40 (77) 19 (26) 12 (20) Diarrhea 40 (77) 17 (23) 8 (14) Nausea 9 (17) 3 (4) 3 (5) Vomiting 9 (17) 0 0 Abdominal Discomfort 0 0 2 (3) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 4 (8) 1 (1) 1 (2) Fatigue 2 (4) 1 (1) 1 (2) Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders 0 3 (4) 2 (3) Gout 0 3 (4) 1 (2) Nervous System Disorders 1 (2) 1 (1.4) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2) 1 (1) 2 (3) Respiratory Thoracic Mediastinal Disorders 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Serious toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory and central nervous systems. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see Overdosage (10) ]. The following adverse reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible upon temporarily interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine. Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological: alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial for gout were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Most common adverse reactions (up to 20%) are abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. These effects are usually mild, transient, and reversible upon lowering the dose (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials of colchicine for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial with COLCRYS for treatment of gout flares were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Gastrointestinal tract adverse effects are the most frequent side effects in patients initiating COLCRYS, usually presenting within 24 hours, and occurring in up to 20% of patients given therapeutic doses. Typical symptoms include cramping, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and vomiting. These events should be viewed as dose-limiting if severe as they can herald the onset of more significant toxicity. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Gout Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying and controlled conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug, and may not predict the rates observed in a broader patient population in clinical practice. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with a gout flare, gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred in 26% of patients using the recommended dose (1.8 mg over 1 hour) of COLCRYS compared to 77% of patients taking a non-recommended high-dose (4.8 mg over 6 hours) of colchicine and 20% of patients taking placebo. Diarrhea was the most commonly reported drug-related gastrointestinal adverse event. As shown in Table 3, diarrhea is associated with COLCRYS treatment. Diarrhea was more likely to occur in patients taking the high-dose regimen than the low-dose regimen. Severe diarrhea occurred in 19% and vomiting occurred in 17% of patients taking the non-recommended high-dose colchicine regimen but did not occur in the recommended low-dose COLCRYS regimen. Table 3 Number (%) of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related Treatment Emergent Adverse Events with an Incidence of >= 2% of Patients in Any Treatment Group MedDRA System Organ Class MedDRA Preferred Term COLCRYS Dose Placebo (N=59) n (%) High (N=52) n (%) Low (N=74) n (%) Number of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related TEAE 40 (77) 27 (37) 16 (27) Gastrointestinal Disorders 40 (77) 19 (26) 12 (20) Diarrhea 40 (77) 17 (23) 8 (14) Nausea 9 (17) 3 (4) 3 (5) Vomiting 9 (17) 0 0 Abdominal Discomfort 0 0 2 (3) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 4 (8) 1 (1) 1 (2) Fatigue 2 (4) 1 (1) 1 (2) Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders 0 3 (4) 2 (3) Gout 0 3 (4) 1 (2) Nervous System Disorders 1 (2) 1 (1.4) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2) 1 (1) 2 (3) Respiratory Thoracic Mediastinal Disorders 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Serious toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory, and central nervous systems. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see OVERDOSAGE (10) ]. The following adverse reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible upon temporarily interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine. Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological: alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial for gout were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Most common adverse reactions (up to 20%) are abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. These effects are usually mild, transient and reversible upon lowering the dose (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Prophylaxis of Gout Flares The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials of colchicine for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial with COLCRYS for treatment of gout flares were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF Gastrointestinal tract adverse effects are the most frequent side effects in patients initiating COLCRYS, usually presenting within 24 hours, and occurring in up to 20% of patients given therapeutic doses. Typical symptoms include cramping, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain and vomiting. These events should be viewed as dose-limiting if severe, as they can herald the onset of more significant toxicity. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Gout Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying and controlled conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not predict the rates observed in a broader patient population in clinical practice. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with a gout flare, gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred in 26% of patients using the recommended dose (1.8 mg over one hour) of COLCRYS compared to 77% of patients taking a nonrecommended high dose (4.8 mg over six hours) of colchicine and 20% of patients taking placebo. Diarrhea was the most commonly reported drug-related gastrointestinal adverse event. As shown in Table 3, diarrhea is associated with COLCRYS treatment. Diarrhea was more likely to occur in patients taking the high-dose regimen than the low-dose regimen. Severe diarrhea occurred in 19% and vomiting occurred in 17% of patients taking the nonrecommended high-dose colchicine regimen but did not occur in the recommended low-dose COLCRYS regimen. Table 3 Number (%) of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event with an Incidence of >= 2% of Patients in Any Treatment Group MedDRA System Organ Class MedDRA Preferred Term COLCRYS Dose Placebo (N=59) n (%) High (N=52) n (%) Low (N=74) n (%) Number of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related TEAE 40 (77) 27 (37) 16 (27) Gastrointestinal Disorders 40 (77) 19 (26) 12 (20) Diarrhea 40 (77) 17 (23) 8 (14) Nausea 9 (17) 3 (4) 3 (5) Vomiting 9 (17) 0 0 Abdominal Discomfort 0 0 2 (3) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 4 (8) 1 (1) 1 (2) Fatigue 2 (4) 1 (1) 1 (2) Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders 0 3 (4) 2 (3) Gout 0 3 (4) 1 (2) Nervous System Disorders 1 (2) 1 (1.4) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2) 1 (1) 2 (3) Respiratory Thoracic Mediastinal Disorders 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Serious toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory and central nervous systems. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see Overdosage (10) ]. The following adverse reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible upon temporarily interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine. Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological: alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial for gout were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Most common adverse reactions (up to 20%) are abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. These effects are usually mild, transient and reversible upon lowering the dose (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Prophylaxis of Gout Flares The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials of colchicine for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial with COLCRYS for treatment of gout flares were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF Gastrointestinal tract adverse effects are the most frequent side effects in patients initiating COLCRYS, usually presenting within 24 hours, and occurring in up to 20% of patients given therapeutic doses. Typical symptoms include cramping, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain and vomiting. These events should be viewed as dose-limiting if severe, as they can herald the onset of more significant toxicity. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Gout Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying and controlled conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not predict the rates observed in a broader patient population in clinical practice. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with a gout flare, gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred in 26% of patients using the recommended dose (1.8 mg over one hour) of COLCRYS compared to 77% of patients taking a nonrecommended high dose (4.8 mg over six hours) of colchicine and 20% of patients taking placebo. Diarrhea was the most commonly reported drug-related gastrointestinal adverse event. As shown in Table 3, diarrhea is associated with COLCRYS treatment. Diarrhea was more likely to occur in patients taking the high-dose regimen than the low-dose regimen. Severe diarrhea occurred in 19% and vomiting occurred in 17% of patients taking the nonrecommended high-dose colchicine regimen but did not occur in the recommended low-dose COLCRYS regimen. Table 3 Number (%) of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event with an Incidence of >= 2% of Patients in Any Treatment Group MedDRA System Organ Class MedDRA Preferred Term COLCRYS Dose Placebo (N=59) n (%) High (N=52) n (%) Low (N=74) n (%) Number of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related TEAE 40 (77) 27 (37) 16 (27) Gastrointestinal Disorders 40 (77) 19 (26) 12 (20) Diarrhea 40 (77) 17 (23) 8 (14) Nausea 9 (17) 3 (4) 3 (5) Vomiting 9 (17) 0 0 Abdominal Discomfort 0 0 2 (3) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 4 (8) 1 (1) 1 (2) Fatigue 2 (4) 1 (1) 1 (2) Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders 0 3 (4) 2 (3) Gout 0 3 (4) 1 (2) Nervous System Disorders 1 (2) 1 (1.4) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2) 1 (1) 2 (3) Respiratory Thoracic Mediastinal Disorders 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Serious toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory and central nervous systems. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see Overdosage (10) ]. The following adverse reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible upon temporarily interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine. Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological:alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares: The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial for gout were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF: Most common adverse reactions (up to 20%) are abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. These effects are usually mild, transient and reversible upon lowering the dose (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Prophylaxis of Gout Flares The most commonly reported adverse reaction in clinical trials of colchicine for the prophylaxis of gout was diarrhea. Treatment of Gout Flares The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial with COLCRYS for treatment of gout flares were diarrhea (23%) and pharyngolaryngeal pain (3%). FMF Gastrointestinal tract adverse effects are the most frequent side effects in patients initiating COLCRYS, usually presenting within 24 hours, and occurring in up to 20% of patients given therapeutic doses. Typical symptoms include cramping, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain and vomiting. These events should be viewed as dose-limiting if severe, as they can herald the onset of more significant toxicity. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Gout Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying and controlled conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not predict the rates observed in a broader patient population in clinical practice. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with a gout flare, gastrointestinal adverse reactions occurred in 26% of patients using the recommended dose (1.8 mg over one hour) of COLCRYS compared to 77% of patients taking a nonrecommended high dose (4.8 mg over six hours) of colchicine and 20% of patients taking placebo. Diarrhea was the most commonly reported drug-related gastrointestinal adverse event. As shown in Table 3, diarrhea is associated with COLCRYS treatment. Diarrhea was more likely to occur in patients taking the high-dose regimen than the low-dose regimen. Severe diarrhea occurred in 19% and vomiting occurred in 17% of patients taking the nonrecommended high-dose colchicine regimen but did not occur in the recommended low-dose COLCRYS regimen. Table 3. Number (%) of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event with an Incidence of >= 2% of Patients in Any Treatment Group MedDRA System Organ Class MedDRA Preferred Term COLCRYS Dose Placebo (N=59) n (%) High (N=52) n (%) Low (N=74) n (%) Number of Patients with at Least One Drug-Related TEAE 40 (77) 27 (37) 16 (27) Gastrointestinal Disorders 40 (77) 19 (26) 12 (20) Diarrhea 40 (77) 17 (23) 8 (14) Nausea 9 (17) 3 (4) 3 (5) Vomiting 9 (17) 0 0 Abdominal Discomfort 0 0 2 (3) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 4 (8) 1 (1) 1 (2) Fatigue 2 (4) 1 (1) 1 (2) Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders 0 3 (4) 2 (3) Gout 0 3 (4) 1 (2) Nervous System Disorders 1 (2) 1 (1.4) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2) 1 (1) 2 (3) Respiratory Thoracic Mediastinal Disorders 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 1 (2) 2 (3) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Serious toxic manifestations associated with colchicine include myelosuppression, disseminated intravascular coagulation and injury to cells in the renal, hepatic, circulatory and central nervous systems. These most often occur with excessive accumulation or overdosage [see Overdosage (10) ]. The following adverse reactions have been reported with colchicine. These have been generally reversible upon temporarily interrupting treatment or lowering the dose of colchicine. Neurological: sensory motor neuropathy Dermatological: alopecia, maculopapular rash, purpura, rash Digestive: abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, diarrhea, lactose intolerance, nausea, vomiting Hematological: leukopenia, granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia Hepatobiliary: elevated AST, elevated ALT Musculoskeletal: myopathy, elevated CPK, myotonia, muscle weakness, muscle pain, rhabdomyolysis Reproductive: azoospermia, oligospermia"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Colchicine is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and the CYP3A4 metabolizing enzyme. Fatal drug interactions have been reported when colchicine is administered with clarithromycin, a dual inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein. Toxicities have also been reported when colchicine is administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 that may not be potent inhibitors of P-gp (e.g., grapefruit juice, erythromycin, verapamil), or inhibitors of P-gp that may not be potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., cyclosporine). Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules with drugs that inhibit both P-glycoprotein and CYP3A4 [See Contraindications (4) ]. Combining these dual inhibitors with colchicine capsules in patients with renal and hepatic impairment has resulted in life-threatening or fatal colchicine toxicity. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with colchicine capsules and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxic reactions associated with increased colchicine exposure due to drug interactions. Signs and symptoms of colchicine toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, colchicine capsules should be discontinued immediately. Co-administration of P-gp or CYP3A4 inhibitors or inhibitors of both P-gp and CYP3A4 (e.g., clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been reported to lead to colchicine toxicity. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. Concomitant use of colchicine capsules and inhibitors of CYP3A4 or P-gp should be avoided if possible. If co-administration of colchicine capsules and an inhibitor of CYP3A4 or P-gp is necessary, the dose of colchicine capsules should be reduced and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity (7, 12.3). 7.1 CYP3A4 The concomitant use of colchicine capsules and CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., clarithromycin, ketoconazole, grapefruit juice, erythromycin, verapamil, etc.) should be avoided due to the potential for serious and life-threatening toxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. If co-administration of colchicine capsules and a CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary, the dose of colchicine capsules should be adjusted by either reducing the daily dose or reducing the dose frequency, and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity [See Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. 7.2 P-glycoprotein The concomitant use of colchicine capsules and inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (e.g. clarithromycin, ketoconazole, cyclosporine, etc.) should be avoided due to the potential for serious and life-threatening toxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. If co-administration of colchicine capsules and a P-gp inhibitor is necessary, the dose of colchicine capsules should be adjusted by either reducing the daily dose or reducing the dose frequency, and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity [See Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. 7.3 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors and Fibrates Some drugs such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and fibrates may increase the risk of myopathy when combined with colchicine capsules. Complaints of muscle pain or weakness could be an indication to check serum creatinine kinase levels for signs of myopathy. 7.4 Drug-Drug Interaction Studies Four pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the effects of co-administration of voriconazole (200 mg BID), fluconazole (200 mg QD), cimetidine (800 mg BID), and propafenone (225 mg BID) on systemic levels of colchicine. Colchicine can be administered with these drugs at the tested doses without a need for dose adjustment. However, these results should not be extrapolated to other co-administered drugs [See Drug-Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.2) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ]."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Colchicine is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and the CYP3A4 metabolizing enzyme. Fatal drug interactions have been reported when colchicine is administered with clarithromycin, a dual inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein. Toxicities have also been reported when colchicine is administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 that may not be potent inhibitors of P-gp (e.g., grapefruit juice, erythromycin, verapamil), or inhibitors of P-gp that may not be potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., cyclosporine). Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given MITIGARE(R) with drugs that inhibit both P-glycoprotein and CYP3A4 [See Contraindications (4)]. Combining these dual inhibitors with MITIGARE(R) in patients with renal and hepatic impairment has resulted in life-threatening or fatal colchicine toxicity. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with MITIGARE(R) and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxic reactions associated with increased colchicine exposure due to drug interactions. Signs and symptoms of colchicine toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, MITIGARE(R) should be discontinued immediately. Co-administration of P-gp or CYP3A4 inhibitors or inhibitors of both P-gp and CYP3A4 (e.g., clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been reported to lead to colchicine toxicity. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. Concomitant use of MITIGARE(R) and inhibitors of CYP3A4 or P-gp should be avoided if possible. If co-administration of MITIGARE(R) and an inhibitor of CYP3A4 or P-gp is necessary, the dose of MITIGARE(R) should be reduced and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity (7, 12.3). 7.1 CYP3A4 The concomitant use of MITIGARE(R) and CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., clarithromycin, ketoconazole, grapefruit juice, erythromycin, verapamil, etc.) should be avoided due to the potential for serious and life-threatening toxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. If co-administration of MITIGARE(R) and a CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary, the dose of MITIGARE(R) should be adjusted by either reducing the daily dose or reducing the dose frequency, and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity [See Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. 7.2 P-glycoprotein The concomitant use of MITIGARE(R) and inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (e.g. clarithromycin, ketoconazole, cyclosporine, etc.) should be avoided due to the potential for serious and life-threatening toxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. If co-administration of MITIGARE(R) and a P-gp inhibitor is necessary, the dose of MITIGARE(R) should be adjusted by either reducing the daily dose or reducing the dose frequency, and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity [See Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. 7.3 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors and Fibrates Some drugs such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and fibrates may increase the risk of myopathy when combined with MITIGARE(R). Complaints of muscle pain or weakness could be an indication to check serum creatinine kinase levels for signs of myopathy. 7.4 Drug-Drug Interaction Studies Four pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the effects of co-administration of voriconazole (200 mg BID), fluconazole (200 mg QD), cimetidine (800 mg BID), and propafenone (225 mg BID) on systemic levels of colchicine. Colchicine can be administered with these drugs at the tested doses without a need for dose adjustment. However, these results should not be extrapolated to other co-administered drugs [See Drug-Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Colchicine is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Of the cytochrome P450 enzymes tested, CYP3A4 was mainly involved in the metabolism of colchicine. If Colchicine Tablets, USP are administered with drugs that inhibit P-gp, most of which also inhibit CYP3A4, increased concentrations of colchicine are likely. Fatal drug interactions have been reported. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with Colchicine Tablets, USP and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxicities related to increased colchicine exposure as a result of a drug interaction. Signs and symptoms of colchicine toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, Colchicine Tablets, USP should be discontinued immediately. Table 4 provides recommendations as a result of other potentially significant drug interactions. Table 1 provides recommendations for strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors and P-gp inhibitors. Table 4 Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class or Food Noted or Anticipated Outcome Clinical Comment HMG-Co A Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin Pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction: the addition of one drug to a stable long-term regimen of the other has resulted in myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (including a fatality) Weigh the potential benefits and risks and carefully monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness or weakness, particularly during initial therapy; monitoring CPK (creatine phosphokinase) will not necessarily prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy. Other Lipid Lowering Drugs: fibrates, gemfibrozil Digitalis Glycosides: digoxin P-gp substrate; rhabdomyolysis has been reported Coadministration of P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g.,clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been demonstrated to alter the concentration of colchicine. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. See full prescribing information for a complete list of reported and potential interactions (2.4, 5.3, 7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS COLCRYS (colchicine) is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Of the cytochrome P450 enzymes tested, CYP3A4 was mainly involved in the metabolism of colchicine. If COLCRYS is administered with drugs that inhibit P-gp, most of which also inhibit CYP3A4, increased concentrations of colchicine are likely. Fatal drug interactions have been reported. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with COLCRYS and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxicities related to increased colchicine exposure as a result of a drug interaction. Signs and symptoms of COLCRYS toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, COLCRYS should be discontinued immediately. Table 4 provides recommendations as a result of other potentially significant drug interactions. Table 1 provides recommendations for strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors and P-gp inhibitors. Table 4 Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class or Food Noted or Anticipated Outcome Clinical Comment HMG-Co A Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin Pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction: the addition of one drug to a stable long-term regimen of the other has resulted in myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (including a fatality) P-gp substrate; rhabdomyolysis has been reported Weigh the potential benefits and risks and carefully monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly during initial therapy; monitoring CPK (creatine phosphokinase) will not necessarily prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy. Other Lipid-Lowering Drugs: fibrates, gemfibrozil Digitalis Glycosides: digoxin Coadministration of P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g.,clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been demonstrated to alter the concentration of colchicine. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. See full prescribing information for a complete list of reported and potential interactions (2.4, 5.3, 7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS COLCRYS (colchicine) is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Of the cytochrome P450 enzymes tested, CYP3A4 was mainly involved in the metabolism of colchicine. If COLCRYS is administered with drugs that inhibit P-gp, most of which also inhibit CYP3A4, increased concentrations of colchicine are likely. Fatal drug interactions have been reported. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with COLCRYS and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxicities related to increased colchicine exposure as a result of a drug interaction. Signs and symptoms of COLCRYS toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, COLCRYS should be discontinued immediately. Table 4 provides recommendations as a result of other potentially significant drug interactions. Table 1 provides recommendations for strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors and P-gp inhibitors. Table 4. Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class or Food Noted or Anticipated Outcome Clinical Comment HMG-Co A Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin Pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction: the addition of one drug to a stable long-term regimen of the other has resulted in myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (including a fatality) P-gp substrate; rhabdomyolysis has been reported Weigh the potential benefits and risks and carefully monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly during initial therapy; monitoring CPK (creatine phosphokinase) will not necessarily prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy. Other Lipid-Lowering Drugs: fibrates, gemfibrozil Digitalis Glycosides: digoxin Coadministration of P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been demonstrated to alter the concentration of colchicine. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. See full prescribing information for a complete list of reported and potential interactions (2.4, 5.3, 7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS COLCRYS (colchicine) is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Of the cytochrome P450 enzymes tested, CYP3A4 was mainly involved in the metabolism of colchicine. If COLCRYS is administered with drugs that inhibit P-gp, most of which also inhibit CYP3A4, increased concentrations of colchicine are likely. Fatal drug interactions have been reported. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with COLCRYS and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxicities related to increased colchicine exposure as a result of a drug interaction. Signs and symptoms of COLCRYS toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, COLCRYS should be discontinued immediately. Table 4 provides recommendations as a result of other potentially significant drug interactions. Table 1 provides recommendations for strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors and P-gp inhibitors. Table 4 Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class or Food Noted or anticipated Outcome Clinical Comment HMG-Co A Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin Pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction: the addition of one drug to a stable long-term regimen of the other has resulted in myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (including a fatality) Weigh the potential benefits and risks and carefully monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly during initial therapy; monitoring CPK (creatine phosphokinase) will not necessarily prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy. Other Lipid Lowering Drugs: fibrates, gemfibrozil Digitalis Glycosides: digoxin P-gp substrate; rhabdomyolysis has been reported Co-administration of P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been demonstrated to alter the concentration of colchicine. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. See full prescribing information for a complete list of reported and potential interactions (2.4, 5.3, 7)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity. Probenecid Central Nervous System: headache, dizziness. Metabolic: precipitation of acute gouty arthritis. Gastrointestinal: hepatic necrosis, vomiting, nausea, anorexia, sore gums. Genitourinary: nephritic syndrome, uric acid stones with or without hematuria, renal colic, costovertebral pain, urinary frequency. Hypersensitivity: anaphylaxis, fever, urticaria, pruritus. Hematologic: aplastic anemia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia which in some patients could be related to genetic deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells, anemia. Integumentary: dermatitis, alopecia, flushing. Colchicine Side effects due to colchicine appear to be a function of dosage. The possibility of increased colchicine toxicity in the presence of hepatic dysfunction should be considered. The appearance of any of the following symptoms may require reduction of dosage or discontinuance of the drug. Central Nervous System: peripheral neuritis. Musculoskeletal: muscular weakness. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, or diarrhea may be particularly troublesome in the presence of peptic ulcer or spastic colon. Hypersensitivity: urticaria. Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis. Integumentary: dermatitis, purpura, alopecia. At toxic doses, colchicine may cause severe diarrhea, generalized vascular damage, and renal damage with hematuria and oliguria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity. Probenecid Central Nervous System: headache, dizziness. Metabolic: precipitation of acute gouty arthritis. Gastrointestinal: hepatic necrosis, vomiting, nausea, anorexia, sore gums. Genitourinary: nephrotic syndrome, uric acid stones with or without hematuria, renal colic, costovertebral pain, urinary frequency. Hypersensitivity: anaphylaxis, fever, urticaria, pruritus. Hematologic: aplastic anemia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia which in some patients could be related to genetic deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells, anemia. Integumentary: dermatitis, alopecia, flushing. Colchicine Side effects due to colchicine appear to be a function of dosage. The possibility of increased colchicine toxicity in the presence of hepatic dysfunction should be considered. The appearance of any of the following symptoms may require reduction of dosage or discontinuance of the drug. Central Nervous System: peripheral neuritis. Musculoskeletal: muscular weakness. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, or diarrhea may be particularly troublesome in the presence of peptic ulcer or spastic colon. Hypersensitivity: urticaria. Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis. Integumentary: dermatitis, purpura, alopecia. At toxic doses, colchicine may cause severe diarrhea, generalized vascular damage, and renal damage with hematuria and oliguria."$$
"Drug Interactions When probenecid is used to elevate plasma concentrations of penicillin, or other beta-lactams, or when such drugs are given to patients taking probenecid therapeutically, high plasma concentrations of the other drug may increase the incidence of adverse reactions associated with that drug. In the case of penicillin, or other beta-lactams, psychic disturbances have been reported. The use of salicylates antagonizes the uricosuric action of probenecid (see WARNINGS). The uricosuric action of probenecid is also antagonized by pyrazinamide. Probenecid produces an insignificant increase in free sulfonamide plasma concentrations but a significant increase in total sulfonamide plasma levels. Since probenecid decreases the renal excretion of conjugated sulfonamides, plasma concentrations of the latter should be determined from time to time when a sulfonamide and probenecid and colchicine are coadministered for prolonged periods. Probenecid may prolong or enhance the action of oral sulfonylureas and thereby increase the risk of hypoglycemia. It has been reported that patients receiving probenecid require significantly less thiopental for induction of anesthesia. In addition, ketamine and thiopental anesthesia were significantly prolonged in rats receiving probenecid. The concomitant administration of probenecid increases the mean plasma elimination half-life of a number of drugs which can lead to increased plasma concentrations. These include agents such as indomethacin, acetaminophen, naproxen, ketoprofen, meclofenamate, lorazepam, and rifampin. Although the clinical significance of this observation has not been established, a lower dosage of the drug may be required to produce a therapeutic effect, and increases in dosage of the drug in question should be made cautiously and in small increments when probenecid is being co-administrated. Although specific instances of toxicity due to this potential interaction have not been observed to date, physicians should be alert to this possibility. Probenecid given concomitantly with sulindac had only a slight effect on plasma sulfide levels, while plasma levels of sulindac and sulfone were increased. Sulindac was shown to produce a modest reduction in the uricosuric action of probenecid, which probably is not significant under most circumstances. In animals and in humans, probenecid has been reported to increase plasma concentrations of methotrexate (see WARNINGS). Falsely high readings for theophylline have been reported in an in vitro study, using the Schack and Waxler technique, when therapeutic concentrations of theophylline and probenecid were added to human plasma."$$
"Drug Interactions When probenecid is used to elevate plasma concentrations of penicillin, or other beta-lactams, or when such drugs are given to patients taking probenecid therapeutically, high plasma concentrations of the other drug may increase the incidence of adverse reactions associated with that drug. In the case of penicillin, or other beta-lactams, psychic disturbances have been reported. The use of salicylates antagonizes the uricosuric action of probenecid (see WARNINGS). The uricosuric action of probenecid is also antagonized by pyrazinamide. Probenecid produces an insignificant increase in free sulfonamide plasma concentrations but a significant increase in total sulfonamide plasma levels. Since probenecid decreases the renal excretion of conjugated sulfonamides, plasma concentrations of the latter should be determined from time to time when a sulfonamide and probenecid and colchicine are coadministered for prolonged periods. Probenecid may prolong or enhance the action of oral sulfonylureas and thereby increase the risk of hypoglycemia. It has been reported that patients receiving probenecid require significantly less thiopental for induction of anesthesia. In addition, ketamine and thiopental anesthesia were significantly prolonged in rats receiving probenecid. The concomitant administration of probenecid increases the mean plasma elimination of half-life of a number of drugs which can lead to increased plasma concentrations. These include agents such as indomethacin, acetaminophen, naproxen, ketoprofen, meclofenamate, lorazepam, and rifampin. Although the clinical significance of this observation has not been established, a lower dosage of the drug may be required to produce a therapeutic effect and increases in dosage of the drug in question should be made cautiously and in small increments when probenecid is being coadministered. Although specific instances of toxicity due to this potential interaction have not been observed to date, physicians should be alert to this possibility. Probenecid given concomitantly with sulindac had only a slight effect on plasma sulfide levels, while plasma levels of sulindac and sulfone were increased. Sulindac was shown to produce a modest reduction in the uricosuric action of probenecid, which probably is not significant under most circumstances. In animals and in humans, probenecid has been reported to increase plasma concentrations of methotrexate (see WARNINGS). Falsely high readings for theophylline have been reported in an in vitro study, using the Schack and Waxler technique, when therapeutic concentrations of theophylline and probenecid were added to human plasma."$$
"In the homeopathic concentrations used to make STERYMINE, there are no known or expected interactions with other drugs or laboratory tests. In addition, the homeopathic concentrations used are below any levels with known or suspected toxicities",$$
