
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with the use of cromolyn sodium suggests that adverse reactions are rare events. The following adverse reactions have been associated with cromolyn sodium : cough, nasal congestion, nausea, sneezing, and wheezing. Other reactions have been reported in clinical trials; however, a causal relationship could not be established: drowsiness, nasal itching, nose bleed, nose burning, serum sickness, and stomachache. In addition, adverse reactions have been reported with cromolyn sodium for inhalation, USP capsules. The most common side effects are associated with inhalation of the powder and include transient cough (1 in 5 patients) and mild wheezing (1 in 25 patients). These effects rarely require treatment or discontinuation of the drug. Information on the incidence of adverse reactions to cromolyn sodium for inhalation, USP capsules has been derived from U.S. postmarketing surveillance experience. The following adverse reactions attributed to cromolyn sodium, based upon recurrence following readministration, have been reported in less than 1 in 10,000 patients: laryngeal edema, swollen parotid gland, angioedema, bronchospasm, joint swelling and pain, dizziness, dysuria and urinary frequency, nausea, cough, wheezing, headache, nasal congestion, rash, urticaria and lacrimation. Other adverse reactions have been reported in less than 1 in 100,000 patients, and it is unclear whether these are attributable to the drug: anaphylaxis, nephrosis, periarteritic vasculitis, pericarditis, peripheral neuritis, pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia, polymyositis, exfoliative dermatitis, hemoptysis, anemia, myalgia, hoarseness, photodermatitis, and vertigo."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Most of the adverse events reported in mastocytosis patients have been transient and could represent symptoms of the disease. The most frequently reported adverse events in mastocytosis patients who have received Cromolyn Sodium Oral Solution (Concentrate) 100 mg/5 mL during clinical studies were headache and diarrhea, each of which occurred in 4 of the 87 patients. Pruritus, nausea, and myalgia were each reported in 3 patients and abdominal pain, rash, and irritability in 2 patients each. One report of malaise was also recorded. Other Adverse Events: Additional adverse events have been reported during studies in other clinical conditions and from worldwide postmarketing experience. In most cases the available information is incomplete and attribution to the drug cannot be determined. The majority of these reports involve the gastrointestinal system and include: diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, glossitis, stomatitis, vomiting, dysphagia, esophagospasm. Other less commonly reported events (the majority representing only a single report) include the following: Skin: pruritus, rash, urticaria/angioedema, erythema/burning, photosensitivity. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, stiffness/weakness of legs Neurologic: headache, dizziness, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, migraine, convulsions, flushing Psychiatric: psychosis, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, behavior change, insomnia, nervousness Heart Rate: tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), palpitations Respiratory: pharyngitis, dyspnea Miscellaneous: fatigue, edema, unpleasant taste, chest pain, postprandial lightheadedness and lethargy, dysuria, urinary frequency, purpura, hepatic function test abnormal, polycythemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, tinnitus, lupus erythematosus (LE) syndrome."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Most of the adverse events reported in mastocytosis patients have been transient and could represent symptoms of the disease. The most frequently reported adverse events in mastocytosis patients who have received Cromolyn Sodium Oral Solution, Concentrate during clinical studies were headache and diarrhea, each of which occurred in 4 of the 87 patients. Pruritus, nausea, and myalgia were each reported in 3 patients and abdominal pain, rash, and irritability in 2 patients each. One report of malaise was also recorded. Other Adverse Events: Additional adverse events have been reported during studies in other clinical conditions and from worldwide postmarketing experience. In most cases the available information is incomplete and attribution to the drug cannot be determined. The majority of these reports involve the gastrointestinal system and include: diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, glossitis, stomatitis, vomiting, dysphagia, esophagospasm. Other less commonly reported events (the majority representing only a single report) include the following: Skin: pruritus, rash, urticaria/angioedema, erythema/ burning, photosensitivity Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, stiffness/weakness of legs Neurologic: headache, dizziness, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, migraine, convulsions, flushing Psychiatric: psychosis, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, behavior change, insomnia, nervousness Heart Rate: tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), palpitations Respiratory: pharyngitis, dyspnea Miscellaneous: fatigue, edema, unpleasant taste, chest pain, postprandial lightheadedness and lethargy, dysuria, urinary frequency, purpura, hepatic function test abnormal, polycythemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, tinnitus, lupus erythematosus (LE) syndrome"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Most of the adverse events reported in mastocytosis patients have been transient and could represent symptoms of the disease. The most frequently reported adverse events in mastocytosis patients who have received Cromolyn Sodium, USP during clinical studies were headache and diarrhea, each of which occurred in 4 of the 87 patients. Pruritus, nausea, and myalgia were each reported in 3 patients and abdominal pain, rash, and irritability in 2 patients each. One report of malaise was also recorded. Other Adverse Events: Additional adverse events have been reported during studies in other clinical conditions and from worldwide postmarketing experience. In most cases the available information is incomplete and attribution to the drug cannot be determined. The majority of these reports involve the gastrointestinal system and include: diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, glossitis, stomatitis, vomiting, dysphagia, esophagospasm. Other less commonly reported events (the majority representing only a single report) include the following: Skin: pruritus, rash, urticaria/angioedema, erythema/ burning, photosensitivity Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, stiffness/weakness of legs Neurologic: headache, dizziness, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, migraine, convulsions, flushing Psychiatric: psychosis, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, behavior change, insomnia, nervousness Heart Rate: tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), palpitations Respiratory: pharyngitis, dyspnea Miscellaneous: fatigue, edema, unpleasant taste, chest pain, postprandial lightheadedness and lethargy, dysuria, urinary frequency, purpura, hepatic function test abnormal, polycythemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, tinnitus, lupus erythematosus (LE) syndrome"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Most of the adverse events reported in mastocytosis patients have been transient and could represent symptoms of the disease. The most frequently reported adverse events in mastocytosis patients who have received Cromolyn Sodium, USP during clinical studies were headache and diarrhea, each of which occurred in 4 of the 87 patients. Pruritus, nausea, and myalgia were each reported in 3 patients and abdominal pain, rash, and irritability in 2 patients each. One report of malaise was also recorded. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Wallace Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-999-8407 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Other Adverse Events: Additional adverse events have been reported during studies in other clinical conditions and from worldwide postmarketing experience. In most cases the available information is incomplete and attribution to the drug cannot be determined. The majority of these reports involve the gastrointestinal system and include: diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, glossitis, stomatitis, vomiting, dysphagia, esophagospasm. Other less commonly reported events (the majority representing only a single report) include the following: Skin: pruritus, rash, urticaria/angioedema, erythema/ burning, photosensitivity Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, stiffness/weakness of legs Neurologic: headache, dizziness, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, migraine, convulsions, flushing Psychiatric: psychosis, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, behavior change, insomnia, nervousness Heart Rate: tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), palpitations Respiratory: pharyngitis, dyspnea Miscellaneous: fatigue, edema, unpleasant taste, chest pain, postprandial lightheadedness and lethargy, dysuria, urinary frequency, purpura, hepatic function test abnormal, polycythemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, tinnitus, lupus erythematosus (LE) syndrome"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Most of the adverse events reported in mastocytosis patients have been transient and could represent symptoms of the disease. The most frequently reported adverse events in mastocytosis patients who have received GASTROCROM during clinical studies were headache and diarrhea, each of which occurred in 4 of the 87 patients. Pruritus, nausea, and myalgia were each reported in 3 patients and abdominal pain, rash, and irritability in 2 patients each. One report of malaise was also recorded. Other Adverse Events Additional adverse events have been reported during studies in other clinical conditions and from worldwide postmarketing experience. In most cases the available information is incomplete and attribution to the drug cannot be determined. The majority of these reports involve the gastrointestinal system and include: diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, glossitis, stomatitis, vomiting, dysphagia, esophagospasm. Other less commonly reported events (the majority representing only a single report) include the following: Skin: pruritus, rash, urticaria/angioedema, erythema/ burning, photosensitivity Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, stiffness/weakness of legs Neurologic: headache, dizziness, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, migraine, convulsions, flushing Psychiatric: psychosis, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, behavior change, insomnia, nervousness Heart Rate: tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), palpitations Respiratory: pharyngitis, dyspnea Miscellaneous: fatigue, edema, unpleasant taste, chest pain, postprandial lightheadedness and lethargy, dysuria, urinary frequency, purpura, hepatic function test abnormal, polycythemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, tinnitus, lupus erythematosus (LE) syndrome"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Most of the adverse events reported in mastocytosis patients have been transient and could represent symptoms of the disease. The most frequently reported adverse events in mastocytosis patients who have received GASTROCROM during clinical studies were headache and diarrhea, each of which occurred in 4 of the 87 patients. Pruritus, nausea, and myalgia were each reported in 3 patients and abdominal pain, rash, and irritability in 2 patients each. One report of malaise was also recorded. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-999-8406 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Other Adverse Events: Additional adverse events have been reported during studies in other clinical conditions and from worldwide postmarketing experience. In most cases the available information is incomplete and attribution to the drug cannot be determined. The majority of these reports involve the gastrointestinal system and include: diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, glossitis, stomatitis, vomiting, dysphagia, esophagospasm. Other less commonly reported events (the majority representing only a single report) include the following: Skin: pruritus, rash, urticaria/angioedema, erythema/ burning, photosensitivity Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, stiffness/weakness of legs Neurologic: headache, dizziness, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, migraine, convulsions, flushing Psychiatric: psychosis, anxiety, depression, hallucinations, behavior change, insomnia, nervousness Heart Rate: tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), palpitations Respiratory: pharyngitis, dyspnea Miscellaneous: fatigue, edema, unpleasant taste, chest pain, postprandial lightheadedness and lethargy, dysuria, urinary frequency, purpura, hepatic function test abnormal, polycythemia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, tinnitus, lupus erythematosus (LE) syndrome"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reaction attributed to the use of cromolyn sodium, on the basis of reoccurrence following readministration, is transient ocular stinging or burning upon instillation. The following adverse reactions have been reported as infrequent events. It is unclear whether they are attributed to the drug: Conjunctival injection; watery eyes; itchy eyes; dryness around the eye; puffy eyes; eye irritation; and styes. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported rarely and include dyspnea, edema, and rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reaction attributed to the use of cromolyn sodium ophthalmic solution, on the basis of reoccurrence following readministration, is transient ocular stinging or burning upon instillation. The following adverse reactions have been reported as infrequent events. It is unclear whether they are attributable to the drug: Conjunctival injection; watery eyes; itchy eyes; dryness around the eye; puffy eyes; eye irritation; and styes. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported rarely and include dyspnea, edema and rash."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The most frequently reported adverse reaction attributed to the use of cromolyn sodium ophthalmic solution, on the basis of reoccurrence following readministration, is transient ocular stinging or burning upon instillation. The following adverse reactions have been reported as infrequent events. It is unclear whether they are attributed to the drug: Conjunctival injection; watery eyes; itchy eyes; dryness around the eye; puffy eyes; eye irritation; and styes. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported rarely and include dyspnea, edema, and rash."$$
"Drug Interaction During Pregnancy Cromolyn sodium and isoproterenol were studied following subcutaneous injections in pregnant mice. Cromolyn sodium alone in doses up to 540 mg/kg (approximately 27 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg/m2 basis) did not cause significant increases in resorptions or major malformations. Isoproterenol alone at a dose of 2.7 mg/kg (approximately 7 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg/m2 basis) increased both resorptions and malformations. The addition of cromolyn sodium (approximately 27 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg/m2 basis) to isoproterenol (approximately 7 times the maximum recommended adult human daily inhalation dose on a mg/m2 basis) appears to have increased the incidence of both resorptions and malformations."$$
"Drug Interaction During Pregnancy: In pregnant mice, cromolyn sodium alone did not cause significant increases in resorptions or major malformations at subcutaneous doses up to 540 mg/kg (approximately equal to the maximum recommended daily oral dose in adults on a mg/m2 basis). Isoproterenol alone increased both resorptions and major malformations (primarily cleft palate) at a subcutaneous dose of 2.7 mg/kg (approximately 7 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose in adults on a mg/m2 basis). The incidence of major malformations increased further when cromolyn sodium at a subcutaneous dose of 540 mg/kg was added to isoproterenol at a subcutaneous dose of 2.7 mg/kg. No such interaction was observed in rats or rabbits."$$
