"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin (5.1) - Risk of Aluminum Toxicity: For at risk patients (renal failure or those with prolonged therapy), consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels (5.2) - Low Vitamin A levels: Monitor vitamin A levels (5.3) - Allergic Reactions: to thiamine may occur (5.4) - Hypervitaminosis A: Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk (5.5) - Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis: Avoid during testing for this disorder (5.6) - Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excess: Monitor blood vitamin concentrations (5.7) - False Negative Urine Glucose Tests: Due to vitamin C (5.8) 5.1 Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin M.V.I.-Adult contains Vitamin K which may decrease the anticoagulant effect of warfarin. In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving M.V.I-Adult, prothrombin time/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if the dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.2 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-Adult(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with renal impairment. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 micrograms per kg per day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. To prevent aluminum toxicity monitor periodically aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of M.V.I.-Adult. 5.3 Risk of Low Vitamin A Levels Vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations after administration of M.V.I.-Adult(TM). Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-Adult(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylaxis following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylaxis reactions associated with M.V.I. Adult(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-Adult(TM), should be undertaken with caution [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7)]. Blood levels of Vitamin A should be monitored periodically. 5.6 Interference with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia M.V.I-Adult contains folic acid and cyanocobalamin which can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in patients with megaloblastic anemia. Avoid the use of M.V.I.-Adult(TM) in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. 5.7 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-Adult(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-Adult(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I.-Adult(TM) contains Vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Risk of Aluminum Toxicity: For at risk patients (renal failure or those with prolonged therapy), consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels (5.1) - Allergic Reactions: to thiamine may occur (5.2) - Hypervitaminosis A: Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk (5.3) - Vitamin K Antagonizes Warfarin's Anticoagulant Action: Monitor INR (5.4, 7.2) - Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis: Avoid during testing for this disorder (5.5) - Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses: Monitor blood vitamin concentrations (5.6) - False Negative Urine Glucose Tests: due to vitamin C (5.7) - Risk of Vitamin E Toxicity: Additional oral and parenteral vitamin E may result in elevated vitamin E blood concentrations in infants (5.8) - Low Vitamin A Levels: Monitor vitamin A levels (5.9) - Risk of E- Ferol Syndrome: due to polysorbates (5.10) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in pediatric patients with renal impairment. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution, which contain aluminum. Patients with renal impairment, including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. Consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. 5.2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. There have been rare reports of anaphylaxis following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylaxis associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported. 5.3. Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A, an ingredient found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, should be undertaken with caution [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 )]. Blood levels of Vitamin A should be monitored periodically. 5.4 Vitamin K Antagonizes the Anticoagulant Action of Warfarin Vitamin K, which is found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin.In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.5 Interferes with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia Avoid the use of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.6 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, blood concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. 5.7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations. 5.8 Vitamin E Overdose in Infants Receiving Additional Vitamin E Avoid additional oral or parental doses of vitamin E in infants. Daily dose of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains adequate concentrations of vitamin E required to achieve normal blood levels of vitamin E. Therefore, additional vitamin E supplementations of patients receiving INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may result in elevated blood concentrations of vitamin E and potential vitamin E toxicity in infants. 5.9 Risk of Low Vitamin A Levels Vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations after administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of vitamin A may be required, especially in low-birth weight infants. 5.10 Risk of E-Ferol Syndrome in Low-Birth Weight Infants E-Ferol syndrome manifested by thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction, hepatomegaly, cholestasis, ascites, hypotension and metabolic acidosis has been reported in low-birth weight infants following administration of polysorbates which are found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. No E-Ferol syndrome associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -This product contains aluminum that may be toxic (5.1) -Allergic reactions to thiamine may occur (5.2) -Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease (5.3) -Vitamin K antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin (5.4) -Interference with the diagnosis of megaloblastic anemia (5.5) -Blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if deficiencies or excesses are developing (5.6) -Interference with urine glucose testing (5.7) -Incompatibility with intravenous fat emulsions (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) have been reported. 5.3. Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease, Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A, an ingredient found in INFUVITE ADULT, should be undertaken with caution [See Use in Specific Populations (8.5 and 8.6)]. 5.4 Vitamin K Antagonizes the Anticoagulant Action of Warfarin Vitamin K, which is found in INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin.In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.5 Interferes with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia Do not administer INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.6 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations to Determine if Deficiencies or Excesses are Developing In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE), blood concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if deficiencies or excesses are developing. INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. 5.7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations. 5.8 Incompatibility with Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) directly to intravenous fat emulsions."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. (5.1) Studies have shown that vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in inadequate vitamin A administration in the doses recommended with M.V.I.-12(TM). (5.2) Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. (5.3) Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine. (5.4) Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. (5.5) Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to the blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. (5.6) Blood vitamin concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. (5.7) Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause negative urine glucose determination. (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-12(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Adherence of Vitamin A to Plastic Studies have shown that vitamin A, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM), may adhere to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations in the administered M.V.I.-12(TM) doses. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 5.3 Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I.-12(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-12(TM), should be undertaken with caution [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7) ]. 5.6 Blood Sampling of Megaloblastic Anemia Patients Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the M.V.I.-12(TM) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.7 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-12(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-12(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I-12(TM) contains Vitamin C, which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. (5.1) -Studies have shown that vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in inadequate vitamin A administration in the doses recommended with M.V.I.-12(TM). (5.2) -Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. (5.3) -Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine. (5.4) -Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. (5.5) -Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to the blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. (5.6) -Blood vitamin concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. (5.7) -Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause negative urine glucose determination. (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-12(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 microgram per kg per day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Adherence of Vitamin A to Plastic Studies have shown that vitamin A, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM) may adhere to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations in the administered M.V.I.-12(TM) doses. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 5.3 Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I.-12(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-12(TM), should be undertaken with caution [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 and 8.7) ]. 5.6 Blood Sampling of Megaloblastic Anemia Patients Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the M.V.I.-12(TM) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.7 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-12(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-12(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I-12(TM) contains Vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia There have been reports of the following types of reactions: -Allergic - anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema (6) -Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis (6) -CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety (6) -Ophthalmic: diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic : rash, erythema, pruritus CN S : headache: dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic : diplopia There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions (6): Allergic \\342\\200\\224 anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, periorbital and digital edema Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 rash, erythema, pruritus CNS \\342\\200\\224 headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic \\342\\200\\224 diplopia To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. -Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic : rash, erythema, pruritus CNS : headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic : diplopia There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: -Allergic \\342\\200\\224 anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, periorbital and digital edema (6) -Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 rash, erythema, pruritus (6) -CNS \\342\\200\\224 headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety (6) -Ophthalmic \\342\\200\\224 diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100 or electronically at ProductComplaintsPP@hospira.com, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic reactions to thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of M.V.I.-Adult(TM). Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritus CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis, rash, erythema, pruritus, headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety, diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling. -Allergic reactions to thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of the vitamins in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis, rash, erythema, pruritis, headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety, diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of drug interactions between vitamins and other drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities (7.1): Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin Clinical Interactions : Phenytoin (7.1) Levodopa (7.1) Chloramphenicol (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Drug Levels Folic acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Low serum concentration of phenytoin may result in increased seizure frequency. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of drug interactions between vitamins and other drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities: -Acetazolamide (2.4) -Intravenous chlorothiazide sodium (2.4) -Aminophylline (2.4) -Ampicillin (2.4) -Moderately alkaline solutions (2.4) -Calcium salts such as calcium gluconate (2.4) -Vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite (2.4) -Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) -Bleomycin (7.1) Clinical Interactions: -Phenytoin (7.1) -Levodopa (7.1) -Chloramphenicol (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Drug Levels Folic acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Low serum concentration of phenytoin may result in increased seizure frequency. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities: -Acetazolamide (2.4) -Intravenous chlorothiazide sodium (2.4) -Aminophylline (2.4) -Ampicillin (2.4) -Moderately alkaline solutions (2.4) -Tetracycline HCl (2.4) -Calcium salts such as calcium gluconate (2.4) -Vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite (2.4) Clinical interactions affecting levels of co-administered drugs -Antibiotics - Activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin decreases by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid and riboflavin also reduces the activity of bleomycin (7.1) -Levodopa exposure may decrease by pyridoxine. Levodopa efficacy may decline (7.1) -Phenytoin exposure may decrease by folic acid increasing the risk of seizure activity (7.1) Clinical interactions affecting vitamin levels -Chloramphenicol may inhibit hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy in pernicious anemia patients (7.2) -Phenytoin may decrease folic acid concentrations; therefore, coadministration should be avoided in pregnancy (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Levels of Co-administered Drugs Folic Acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Folic acid may lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these types of interactions: Effect of M.V.I.-Adult on other drugs: - Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) - Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin (7.1) - Levodopa: Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease (7.1) - Phenytoin: Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase the risk of seizure activity (7.1) - Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate (7.1) Effects of other drugs on M.V.I.-Adult: - Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements (7.2) - Phenytoin: May decrease folic acid concentrations (7.2) 7.1 Effect of M.V.I.-Adult on Other Drugs Phenytoin: Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate therapy. Levodopa: Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa (decrease blood level of levodopa) and decrease its efficacy. Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro, thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced. 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on M.V.I.-Adult Hydralazine or Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. Chloramphenicol: In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin: Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions Affecting Co-administered Drugs: - Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) - Bleomycin : Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin (7.1) - Levodopa: Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease (7.1) - Phenytoin: Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase risk of seizure activity (7.1) - Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate (7.1) Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels: - Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements (7.2). - Phenytoin: May decrease folic acid concentrations (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions Affecting Co-administered Drugs A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these types of interactions: Warfarin: Vitamin K, a component of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin. In patients who are co-administered warfarin and INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro, thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced. Levodopa: Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa (decrease blood levels of levodopa) and decrease its efficacy. Phenytoin: Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate therapy. 7.2 Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. Phenytoin: Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations."$$
"ADVERSE EVENTS You should call your doctor for medical advice about adverse events. To report a serious adverse event, contact Marnel Pharmaceuticals, 206 Luke Dr., Lafayette, LA 70506."$$
"ADVERSE REACTION Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals but generally at levels substantially higher than those contained herein. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTION Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Gastrointestinal disturbances (anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation) occur occasionally, but are usually mild and subside with continuation of therapy and physician encouragement. Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals, occasional G.I. disturbances may be controlled by giving Centratex shortly after meals."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in PNV-First. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R) Fe+. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-Nano. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-OB. Allergic reactions have been reported with some forms of Gum Acacia to include respiratory problems and skin lesions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-OB+DHA. Allergic reactions have been reported with some forms of gum acacia to include respiratory problems and skin lesions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-Plus. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-Ultra. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals but generally at levels substantially higher than those contained herein. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in BACMIN. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in Calcium-Folic Acid Plus D Chewable Wafers. However, allergic and/or idiosyncratic reactions to vitamins even at lower potencies or any ingredient are possible."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) FORTE. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) ONE."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools, and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include gastrointestinal intolerance, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Skin rashes of various types may occur. Such reactions may necessitate temporary or permanent changes in dosage or usage. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritation, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and dark stools. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritations, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Carbonyl iron based products may decrease the absorption of medicines. Talk to your doctor and pharmacist before taking carbonyl products if you take any prescription or over-the-counter medicines."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact GM Pharmaceuticals at 1-888-535-0305."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Call your medical practitioner about side effects. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea, and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, transient skin rash, flushing, epigastric pain, and constipation have been associated with acetylcysteine."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, transient skin rash, flushing, epigastric pain, and constipation have been associated with acetylcysteine. Call your medical practitioner about side effects."$$
"Adverse reactions Allergic sensitization following oral and parenteral administration of folic acid has been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral an dparental administration of folacin (folic acid). Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemis vera, itching, transitory exanthema, and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cyanocobalamin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea, and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Carbonyl iron based products may decrease the absorption of medicines. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking carbonyl products. You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-985-288-5122."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid, as well as possibly the use of other forms of folates - including reduced folates. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine hydrochloride. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with cyanocobalamin."$$
"Adverse Reactions Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report a serious adverse event or to obtain product information, contact (866) 703-3508."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-999-8408 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-999-8410 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-985-288-5122"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. T o report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"Adverse Reactions Allergic sensitization has been reported following oral, enteral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Average capsule doses in sensitive individuals or excessive dosage may cause nausea, skin rash, vomiting, diarrhea, precordial pain, or flushing of the face and extremities."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Average capsule doses in sensitive individuals or excessive dosage may cause nausea, skin rash, vomiting, diarrhea, precordial pain, or flushing of the face or extremities."$$
"Adverse Reactions Generalized: Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral vitamin B12 (see WARNINGS). Cardiovascular: Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological: Polycythemia vera Gastrointestinal: Mild transient diarrhea Dermatological: Itching; transitory exanthema Miscellaneous: Feeling of swelling of entire body"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Generalized Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral vitamin B12 (see WARNINGS ). Cardiovascular Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological Polycythemia vera Gastrointestinal Mild transient diarrhea Dermatological Itching; transitory exanthema Miscellaneous Feeling of swelling of entire body"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Generalized: Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral vitamin B12 (see WARNINGS ). Cardiovascular: Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological: Polycythemia vera Gastrointestinal: Mild transient diarrhea Dermatological: Itching; transitory exanthema Miscellaneous: Feeling of swelling of entire body"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Generalized: Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral vitamin B 12 (see WARNINGS ). Cardiovascular: Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological: Polycythemia vera Gastrointestinal: Mild transient diarrhea Dermatological: Itching; transitory exanthema Miscellaneous: Feeling of swelling of entire body"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Generalized: Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral vitamin B12 (see WARNINGS ). Cardiovascular: Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological: Polycythemia vera Gastrointestinal: Mild transient diarrhea Dermatological: Itching; transitory exanthema Miscellaneous: Feeling of swelling of entire body"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Generalized Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral Vitamin B 12 (see WARNINGS ). Cardiovascular Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological Polycythemia vera. Gastrointestinal Mild transient diarrhea. Dermatological Itching; transitory exanthema. Miscellaneous Feeling of swelling of entire body.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Generalized Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral Vitamin B 12 (see WARNINGS). Cardiovascular Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological Polycythemia vera. Gastrointestinal Mild transient diarrhea. Dermatological Itching; transitory exanthema. Miscellaneous Feeling of swelling of entire body."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Generalized Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral Vitamin B12 (see WARNINGS ). Cardiovascular Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological Polycythemia vera. Gastrointestinal Mild transient diarrhea. Dermatological Itching; transitory exanthema. Miscellaneous Feeling of swelling of entire body.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Generalized Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported with administration of parenteral Vitamin B12 (see WARNINGS). Cardiovascular Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological Polycythemia vera. Gastrointestinal Mild transient diarrhea. Dermatological Itching; transitory exanthema. Miscellaneous Feeling of swelling of entire body."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In some cases, allergic hypersensitivity has been reported following administration of folic acid. Mild gastrointestinal disturbances may occur with products containing ferrous fumarate (iron), but usually subside with continuation of therapy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The incidence of adverse experiences described in the Table below are based on data from a short-term clinical trial in vitamin B12 deficient patients in hematologic remission receiving Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration (N=24) and intramuscular vitamin B12 (N=25). In the pharmacokinetic study comparing Nascobal Nasal Spray and Nascobal Nasal Gel, the incidence of adverse events was similar. Table Adverse Experiences by Body System, Number of Patients and Number of Occurrences by Treatment Following Intramuscular and Intranasal Administration of Cyanocobalamin. a Sore throat, Common cold * There may be a possible relationship between these adverse experiences and the study drugs. These adverse experiences could have also been produced by the patient's clinical state or other concomitant therapy. Number of Patients (Occurrences) Body System Adverse Experience Vitamin B12 Nasal Gel, 500mcg N=24 Intramuscular Vitamin B12, 100 mcg N=25 Body as a Whole Asthenia 1 (1) 4 (4) Back Pain 0 (0) 1 (1) Generalized Pain 0 (0) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2)* 5 (11) Infectiona 3 (4) 3 (3) Cardiovascular System Peripheral Vascular Disorder 0 (0) 1 (1) Digestive System Dyspepsia 0 (0) 1 (2) Glossitis 1 (1) 0 (0) Nausea 1 (1)* 1 (1) Nausea & Vomiting 0 (0) 1 (1) Vomiting 0 (0) 1 (1) Musculoskeletal System Arthritis 0 (0) 2 (2) Myalgia 0 (0) 1 (1) Nervous System Abnormal Gait 0 (0) 1 (1) Anxiety 0 (0) 1 (1)* Dizziness 0 (0) 3 (3) Hypoesthesia 0 (0) 1 (1) Incoordination 0 (0) 1 (2)* Nervousness 0 (0) 1 (3)* Paresthesia 1 (1) 1 (1) Respiratory System Dyspnea 0 (0) 1 (1) Rhinitis 1 (1)* 2 (2) The intensity of the reported adverse experiences following the administration of Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration and intramuscular vitamin B12 were generally mild. One patient reported severe headache following intramuscular dosing. Similarly, a few adverse experiences of moderate intensity were reported following intramuscular dosing (two headaches and rhinitis; one dyspepsia, arthritis, and dizziness), and dosing with Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration (one headache, infection, and paresthesia). The majority of the reported adverse experiences following dosing with Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration and intramuscular vitamin B12 were judged to be intercurrent events. For the other reported adverse experiences, the relationship to study drug was judged as \\\\"possible\\\\" or \\\\"remote\\\\". Of the adverse experiences judged to be of \\\\"possible\\\\" relationship to the study drug, anxiety, incoordination, and nervousness were reported following intramuscular vitamin B12 and headache, nausea, and rhinitis were reported following dosing with Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration. The following adverse reactions have been reported with parenteral vitamin B12: Generalized: Anaphylactic shock and death (See Warnings and Precautions). Cardiovascular: Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological: Polycythemia vera. Gastrointestinal: Mild transient diarrhea. Dermatological: Itching; transitory exanthema. Miscellaneous: Feeling of swelling of the entire body."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The incidence of adverse experiences described in the Table below are based on data from a short-term clinical trial in vitamin B12 deficient patients in hematologic remission receiving Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration (N=24) and intramuscular vitamin B12 (N=25). In the pharmacokinetic study comparing Nascobal Nasal Spray and Nascobal Nasal Gel, the incidence of adverse events was similar. Table Adverse Experiences by Body System, Number of Patients and Number of Occurrences by Treatment Following Intramuscular and Intranasal Administration of Cyanocobalamin. * There may be a possible relationship between these adverse experiences and the study drugs. These adverse experiences could have also been produced by the patient's clinical state or other concomitant therapy. \\302\\261 Sore throat, Common cold Number of Patients (Occurrences) Body System Adverse Experience Vitamin B12Nasal Gel,500mcgN=24 IntramuscularVitamin B12, 100 mcgN=25 Body as a Whole Asthenia 1 (1) 4 (4) Back Pain 0 (0) 1 (1) Generalized Pain 0 (0) 2 (3) Headache 1 (2)* 5 (11) Infection\\302\\261 3 (4) 3 (3) Cardiovascular System Peripheral Vascular Disorder 0 (0) 1 (1) Digestive System Dyspepsia 0 (0) 1 (2) Glossitis 1 (1) 0 (0) Nausea 1 (1)* 1 (1) Nausea and Vomiting 0 (0) 1 (1) Vomiting 0 (0) 1 (1) Musculoskeletal System Arthritis 0 (0) 2 (2) Myalgia 0 (0) 1 (1) Nervous System Abnormal Gait 0 (0) 1 (1) Anxiety 0 (0) 1 (1)* Dizziness 0 (0) 3 (3) Hypoesthesia 0 (0) 1 (1) Incoordination 0 (0) 1 (2)* Nervousness 0 (0) 1 (3)* Paresthesia 1 (1) 1 (1) Respiratory System Dyspnea 0 (0) 1 (1) Rhinitis 1 (1) 2 (2) The intensity of the reported adverse experiences following the administration of Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration and intramuscular vitamin B12 were generally mild. One patient reported severe headache following intramuscular dosing. Similarly, a few adverse experiences of moderate intensity were reported following intramuscular dosing (two headaches and rhinitis; one dyspepsia, arthritis, and dizziness), and dosing with Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration (one headache, infection, and paresthesia). The majority of the reported adverse experiences following dosing with Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration and intramuscular vitamin B12 were judged to be intercurrent events. For the other reported adverse experiences, the relationship to study drug was judged as \\\\"possible\\\\" or \\\\"remote\\\\". Of the adverse experiences judged to be of \\\\"possible\\\\" relationship to the study drug, anxiety, incoordination, and nervousness were reported following intramuscular vitamin B12 and headache, nausea, and rhinitis were reported following dosing with Nascobal (Cyanocobalamin, USP) Gel for Intranasal Administration. The following adverse reactions have been reported with parenteral vitamin B12: Cardiovascular: Pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure early in treatment; peripheral vascular thrombosis. Hematological: Polycythemia vera. Gastrointestinal: Mild transient diarrhea. Dermatological: Itching; transitory exanthema. Miscellaneous: Feeling of swelling of the entire body."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration. Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported after large intravenous doses of thiamine. The risk, however, is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins in the B group. There have been no reports of fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I. Pediatric(R). There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: Dermatologic - rash, erythema, pruritus CNS - headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic -diplopia Allergic - urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing, and angioedema"$$
"Drug and Treatment Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficiency of levodopa in the treatment of parkinsonism. Therefore, BACMIN is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy."$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions Physical Incompatibilities: M.V.I. Pediatric(R) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as Diamox (Acetazolamide), Diuril Intravenous Sodium (Chlorothiazide sodium), Aminophylline or sodium bicarbonate. M.V.I. Pediatric(R) is not physically compatible with ampicillin and it may not be physically compatible with ACHROMYCIN (tetracycline HCl). It has also been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate. Direct addition of M.V.I. Pediatric(R) to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended. Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided. Several vitamins have been reported to decrease the activity of certain antibiotics. Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. Some of the vitamins in M.V.I. Pediatric(R) may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite; if bisulfite solutions are necessary, patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies."$$
"Drug Interactions: As little as 5 mg of pyridoxine (vitamin B6) daily can decrease the efficacy of levodopa. Therefore, Calcium-Folic Acid Plus D Chewable Wafers are not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy."$$
"Drug Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficacy of levodopa in the treatment of Parkinsonism. Therefore, STROVITE(R) FORTE is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: C-NATE DHA softgels are not recommended for and should not be given to patients receiving levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatibility of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. Virt-BAL DHA Plus does not contain l-methylfolate but these warnings are included as general folate information. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy. Iron may reduce zinc absorption."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. V-Natal Tabs does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among individuals who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some individuals taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some individuals taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in individuals with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including I-methylfolate and folinic acid. Viva(R) CT Prenatal Chewable does not contain I-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to individuals receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in individuals receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate** include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-HEME OB + DHA does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate** include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-HEME OB Tabs does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced serum folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such a pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 (Methylcobalamin): Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency"$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate include but are not limited to: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folate may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce the effectiveness of first generation anticonvulsants and/or increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible patients. Caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) on folate levels is limited and interactions cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. Levodopa: Levodopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B6 include but are not limited to: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa may be antagonized by vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 may or may not interfere with levodopa even when used concurrently with carbidopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 include but are not limited to: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions: Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium. High dosages of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs: carbamazapine, fosphenytoin, phenyltoin, phenoberbitol, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics. Take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbitol, and valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid (antithyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbitol, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium levels in blood. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine supplements should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa alone, as the actions of levodopa may be antagonized."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Pyridoxine supplements should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa alone, as the actions of levodopa may be antagonized."$$
"Drug Interactions Pyridoxine supplements should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine. However, pyridoxine may be used concurrently in patients recieving a a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Concurrent use of phenytoin and folacin (folic acid) may result in decreased phenytoin effectiveness."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS RELNATE DHA softgels are not recommended for and should not be given to patients receiving levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine."$$
"DRUG INTERATIONS High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbitol, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drugs which may interact with folate include but are not limited to: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folate may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce the effectiveness of first generation anticonvulsants and/or increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible patients. Caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) on folate levels is limited and interactions cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. Levodopa: Levodopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B6 include but are not limited to: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa may be antagonized by vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 may or may not interfere with levodopa even when used concurrently with carbidopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 include but are not limited to: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED), The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of this AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy."$$
"INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of this AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy."$$
"INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with folate include: Anti epileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of this AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramlne: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRls include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. lsotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce Significant impairment In folate status after a 6-month therapy."$$
"Keep out of reach of children. Dispense in a well-closed, tight light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure."$$
"Precautions Folic Acid may partially correct the hematological damage due to vitamin B12 deficiency of pernicious anemia, while the associated neurological damage progresses."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Warnings: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Precautions: Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"Warnings and Precautions: PNV-First should be used with caution in those with known sensitivity or allergy to soy. Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperthyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues. Bone pain, high blood pressure, formation of kidney stones, renal failure and increased risk of heart disease can occur. Iodine should be used with caution in patients with an overactive thyroid. Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease. Folic acid, especially in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency. Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding. Supplemental intake of omega-3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended. Avoid Overdosage."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. This product contains formate, which if consumed above the recommended level, could cause visual impairment and other effects on health. Do not exceed recommended dosage. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"Warnings and Precautions WARNINGS: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately. PRECAUTIONS: Folic Acid alone in doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using this product since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia. Ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) has been shown to have potential anti-thrombotic effects, including increased bleedng times. Administration of Folet DHA Omega-3 Fatty Acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants."$$
"Warnings: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Precautions: Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants."$$
"WARNINGS: PRECAUTIONS: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants. Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day."$$
"WARNINGS/PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues. Bone pain, high blood pressure, formation of kidney stones, renal failure, and increased risk of heart disease can occur. Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease. Folic acid, especially in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency. Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding. Supplemental intake of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended. Avoid overdosage. Keep out of the reach of children. Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions, including use of all medications, vitamins and supplements, pregnancy, and breast-feeding. Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use."$$
