"4. Drug Interactions Reversible decreases in steady-state plasma digoxin concentrations and renal glycoside excretion were observed in patients receiving beta-acetyldigoxin and chemotherapy regimens containing cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone with or without cytarabine injection or procarbazine. Steady-state plasma digitoxin concentrations did not appear to change. Therefore, monitoring of plasma digoxin levels may be indicated in patients receiving similar combination chemotherapy regimens. The utilization of digitoxin for such patients may be considered as an alternative. An in vitro interaction study between gentamicin and cytarabine showed a cytarabine related antagonism for the susceptibility of K. pneumoniae strains. This study suggests that in patients on cytarabine being treated with gentamicin for a K. pneumoniae infection, the lack of a prompt therapeutic response may indicate the need for re-evaluation of antibacterial therapy. Clinical evidence in one patient showed possible inhibition of fluorocytosine efficacy during therapy with cytarabine injection. This may be due to potential competitive inhibition of its uptake."$$
"4. Drug Interactions: Reversible decreases in steady-state plasma digoxin concentrations and renal glycoside excretion were observed in patients receiving beta-acetyldigoxin and chemotherapy regimens containing cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone with or without cytarabine or procarbazine. Steady-state plasma digitoxin concentrations did not appear to change. Therefore, monitoring of plasma digoxin levels may be indicated in patients receiving similar combination chemotherapy regimens. The utilization of digitoxin for such patients may be considered as an alternative. An in vitro interaction study between gentamicin and cytarabine showed a cytarabine related antagonism for the susceptibility of K. pneumoniae strains. This study suggests that in patients on cytarabine being treated with gentamicin for a K. pneumoniae infection, the lack of a prompt therapeutic response may indicate the need for reevaluation of antibacterial therapy. Clinical evidence in one patient showed possible inhibition of fluorocytosine efficacy during therapy with cytarabine. This may be due to potential competitive inhibition of its uptake."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Neurotoxicity: Myelopathy and other neurologic toxicity may occur. Reduce the dose or discontinue DepoCyt. (5.2) Embryo-fetal Toxicity: May cause fetal harm. Advise women of potential harm to a fetus and to avoid pregnancy if receiving DepoCyt. (5.4) 5.1 Chemical Arachnoiditis Chemical arachnoiditis, a syndrome manifested primarily by nausea, vomiting, headache and fever, has been a common adverse event in all studies. If chemical arachnoiditis is suspected, exclude other inflammatory, infectious, or neoplastic conditions. If left untreated, chemical arachnoiditis may be fatal. The incidence and severity of chemical arachnoiditis can be reduced by coadministration of dexamethasone. Patients receiving DepoCyt should be treated concurrently with dexamethasone to mitigate the symptoms of chemical arachnoiditis [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Toxic effects may be related to a single dose or to cumulative administration. Because toxic effects can occur at any time during therapy (although they are most likely to occur within 5 days of drug administration), patients receiving intrathecal therapy with DepoCyt should be monitored continuously for the development of neurotoxicity. If patients develop neurotoxicity, reduce subsequent doses of DepoCyt. If neurotoxicity persists, discontinue DepoCyt [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hydrocephalus has also been reported, possibly precipitated by arachnoiditis. Arachnoiditis is an expected and well-documented side effect of both neoplastic meningitis and of intrathecal chemotherapy. The incidence of severe and life-threatening arachnoiditis in patients receiving DepoCyt was 19% (48/257) in all patients and 30% (10/33) in patients with lymphomatous meningitis. In the early dose-finding study, chemical arachnoiditis was observed in 100% of cycles without dexamethasone prophylaxis. When concurrent dexamethasone was administered, chemical arachnoiditis was observed in 33% of cycles. 5.2 Neurotoxicity Intrathecal administration of cytarabine may cause myelopathy and other neurologic toxicity and can rarely lead to a permanent neurologic deficit. Administration of intrathecal cytarabine in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents or with cranial/spinal irradiation may increase this risk of neurotoxicity. Blockage to CSF flow may result in increased free cytarabine concentrations in the CSF and an increased risk of neurotoxicity. Therefore, as with any intrathecal cytotoxic therapy, consideration should be given to the need for assessment of CSF flow before treatment is started. Following intrathecal administration of DepoCyt, central nervous system toxicity, including persistent extreme somnolence, hemiplegia, visual disturbances including blindness which may be total and permanent, deafness and cranial nerve palsies have been reported. Symptoms and signs of peripheral neuropathy, such as pain, numbness, paresthesia, weakness, and impaired bowel and bladder control have also been observed. In some cases, a combination of neurological signs and symptoms has been reported as Cauda Equina Syndrome. If patients develop neurotoxicity, reduce subsequent doses of DepoCyt or discontinue DepoCyt Headache, nausea, and fever are expected in early signs of neurotoxicity. 5.3 Transient Elevations in CSF Protein and CSF White Blood Cells Transient elevations in CSF protein and white blood cell counts have been observed in patients following DepoCyt administration. 5.4 Embryo-fetal Toxicity Cytarabine, the active component of DepoCyt, can cause fetal harm if a pregnant woman is exposed to the drug systemically. The systemic exposure of cytarabine following intrathecal administration of DepoCyt is negligible. Cytarabine was teratogenic in mice and rats. Cytarabine was embryotoxic in mice when administered during the period of organogenesis. If this drug is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential harm to a fetus. [See Use in Specific Populations, Sec. 8.1]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in greater detail in other sections of the label: Chemical Arachnoiditis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Transient elevations in CSF protein and CSF white blood cells [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=20%) are headache, arachnoiditis, confusion, abnormal gait , convulsions, weakness, pyrexia, fatigue, nausea, vomiting , constipation, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-888-393-4584 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Most Frequently Reported Reactions After intrathecal administration of cytarabine the most frequently reported reactions (>= 10%) are headache NOS, nausea, vomiting NOS, arachnoiditis, weakness, confusion, pyrexia, fatigue, constipation, back pain, gait abnormal NOS, convulsions NOS, dizziness NOS, lethargy, pain in limb, insomnia, urinary tract infection NOS, neck pain, death NOS, pain, memory impairment, dehydration, anemia NOS, diarrhea NOS, appetite decreased NOS, thrombocytopenia, edema peripheral, arthralgia, neck stiffness, vision blurred, muscle weakness, neutropenia, hypoesthesia, agitation, and dyspnea NOS. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The toxicity database consists of the observations made during Phase 1-4 studies. The most common adverse reactions in all patients and in patients with lymphoma are shown in Table 1. The incidences of symptoms possibly reflecting meningeal irritation are shown in Table 2. Table 1. Incidence of adverse reactions occurring in > 10% of patients in all Phase 1-4 adult study patients and in patients with lymphomatous meningitis receiving DepoCyt 50 mg or an active comparator Lymphoma System Organ Class / Preferred Term All DepoCyt (N=257) DepoCyt (N=33) Ara-C (N=28) Nervous System Disorders Headache NOS 144 (56%) 17 (52%) 9 (32%) Arachnoiditis 108 (42%) 14 (42%) 10 (36%) Confusion 86 (33%) 12 (36%) 3 (11%) Gait abnormal NOS 60 (23%) 7 (21 %) 8 (29%) Convulsions NOS 52 (20%) 7 (21%) 1 (4%) Dizziness NOS 47 (18%) 7 (21%) 6 (21%) Memory impairment 36 (14%) 4 (12%) 1 (4%) Hypoesthesia 26 (10%) 4 (12%) 3 (11%) Tremor 22 (9%) 5 (15%) 5 (18%) Peripheral neuropathy NOS 9 (4%) 4 (12%) 1 (4%) Syncope 8 (3%) 0 (0%) 3 (11%) Neuropathy NOS 7 (3%) 3 (9%) 3 (11%) Peripheral sensory neuropathy 7 (3%) 2 (6%) 3 (11%) Reflexes abnormal 7 (3%) 0 (0%) 3 (11%) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Weakness 103 (40%) 13 (39%) 15 (54%) Pyrexia 81 (32%) 15 (45%) 12 (43%) Fatigue 64 (25%) 9 (27%) 13 (46%) Lethargy 41 (16%) 4 (12%) 4 (14%) Death NOS 35 (14%) 9 (27%) 5 (18%) Pain NOS 35 (14%) 3 (9%) 5 (18%) Edema peripheral 27 (11 %) 6 (18%) 7 (25%) Fall 12 (5%) 0 (0%) 3 (11%) Mucosal inflammation NOS 8 (3%) 4 (12%) 2 (7%) Edema NOS 6 (2%) 1 (3%) 6 (21%) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 117 (46%) 11 (33%) 15 (54%) Vomiting NOS 112 (44%) 11 (33%) 9 (32%) Constipation 64 (25%) 8 (24%) 7 (25%) Diarrhea NOS 31 (12%) 9 (27%) 9 (32%) Abdominal pain NOS 22 (9%) 5 (15%) 4 (14%) Dysphagia 20 (8%) 3 (9%) 3 (11%) Hemorrhoids 8 (3%) 0 (0%) 3 (11%) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Back pain 61 (24%) 7 (21%) 5 (18%) Pain in limb 39 (15%) 4 (12%) 8 (29%) Neck pain 36 (14%) 5 (15%) 3 (11%) Arthralgia 29 (11%) 3 (9%) 4 (14%) Neck stiffness 28 (11%) 2 (6%) 4 (14%) Muscle weakness NOS 25 (10%) 5 (15%) 2 (7%) Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 35 (14%) 6 (18%) 7 (25%) Agitation 26 (10%) 5 (15%) 2 (7%) Depression 21 (8%) 6 (18%) 4 (14%) Anxiety 17 (7%) 1 (3%) 3 (11%) Infections and Infestations Urinary tract infection NOS 35 (14%) 6 (18%) 5 (18%) Pneumonia NOS 16 (6%) 2 (6%) 3 (11%) Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Dehydration 33 (13%) 6 (18%) 3 (11%) Appetite decreased NOS 29 (11%) 4 (12%) 3 (11%) Hyponatremia 18 (7%) 4 (12%) 1 (4%) Hypokalemia 17 (7%) 5 (15%) 2 (7%) Hyperglycemia 15 (6%) 4 (12%) 2 (7%) Anorexia 14 (5%) 1 (3%) 5 (18%) Investigations Platelet count decreased 8 (3%) 0 (0%) 3 (11%) Renal and Urinary Disorders Incontinence NOS 19 (7%) 3 (9%) 5 (18%) Urinary retention 14 (5%) 0 (0%) 3 (11%) Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea NOS 25 (10%) 4 (12%) 6 (21%) Cough 17 (7%) 3 (9%) 6 (21%) Eye Disorders Vision blurred 29 (11%) 4 (12%) 4 (14%) Blood and Lymphatic Disorders Anemia NOS 31 (12%) 6 (18%) 5 (18%) Thrombocytopenia 27 (11%) 8 (24%) 9 (32%) Neutropenia 26 (10%) 12 (36%) 7 (25%) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Contusion 6 (2%) 1 (3%) 3 (11%) Pruritus NOS 6 (2%) 0 (0%) 4 (14%) Sweating increased 6 (2%) 1 (3%) 3 (11%) Vascular Disorders Hypotension NOS 21 (8%) 6 (18%) 2 (7%) Hypertension NOS 15 (6%) 5 (15%) 1 (4%) Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Hypacusis 15 (6%) 6 (18%) 3 (11%) Cardiac Disorders Tachycardia NOS 22 (9%) 0 (0%) 5 (18%) Neoplasms Benign, Malignant and Unspecified (Incl Cysts and Polyps) Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma NOS 1 (0%) 1 (3%) 3 (11%) Table 2. Incidence of adverse reactions possibly reflecting meningeal irritation occurring in > 10% of all studied adult patients receiving DepoCyt 50 mg or an active comparator* * Hydrocephalus acquired, CSF pleocytosis and meningism occurred in <= 10% of all studied adult patients receiving DepoCyt or an active comparator System Organ Class / Preferred Term DepoCyt (N=257) MTX (N=78) Ara-C (N=28) Nervous System Disorders Headache NOS 145 (56%) 33 (42%) 9 (32%) Arachnoiditis 108 (42%) 15 (19%) 10 (36%) Convulsions NOS 56 (22%) 11 (14%) 1 (4%) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 117 (46%) 24 (31%) 15 (54%) Vomiting NOS 112 (44%) 22 (28%) 9 (32%) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Back pain 61 (24%) 15 (19%) 5 (18%) Neck pain 36 (14%) 6 (8%) 3 (11%) Neck stiffness 28 (11%) 1 (1%) 4 (14%) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Pyrexia 81 (32%) 15 (19%) 12 (43%) During the clinical studies, 2 deaths related to DepoCyt were reported. One patient at the 125 mg dose level died of encephalopathy 36 hours after receiving an intraventricular dose of DepoCyt. This patient, however, was also receiving concomitant whole brain irradiation and had previously received intraventricular methotrexate. The other patient received DepoCyt, 50 mg by the intraventricular route and developed focal seizures progressing to status epilepticus. This patient died approximately 8 weeks after the last dose of study medication. In the controlled lymphoma study, the patient incidence of seizures was higher in the DepoCyt group (4/17, 23.5%) than in the cytarabine group (1/16, 6.3%). The death of 1 additional patient was considered "possibly" related to DepoCyt. He was a 63-year-old with extensive lymphoma involving the nasopharynx, brain, and meninges with multiple neurologic deficits who died of apparent disease progression 4 days after his second dose of DepoCyt."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal assessments of pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions between DepoCyt and other agents have been conducted. Concomitant administration of DepoCyt with other antineoplastic agents administered by the intrathecal route has not been studied. With intrathecal cytarabine and other cytotoxic agents administered intrathecally, enhanced neurotoxicity has been associated with coadministration of drugs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with Cytarabine Injection. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7-9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15-24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12-15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications Infection Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine injection alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with Cytarabine Injection. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions anorexia oral and anal inflammation rash nausea or uclearation thrombophlebitis vomiting hepatic dysfunction bleeding (all sites) diarrhea fever Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection Less Frequent Adverse Reactions sepsis sore throat conjunctivitis (may occur with rash) pneumonia esophageal ulceration dizziness cellulites at injection site esophagitis alopecia skin ulceration chest pain anaphylaxis (see WARNINGS) urinary retention pericarditis allergic edema renal dysfunction bowel necrosis pruritis neuritis abdominal pain shortness of breath neural toxicity pancreatitis urticaria freckling headache jaundice Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine injection) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine injection. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard treatment programs using cytarabine. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a preparation containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death have been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimens developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine injection and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine Injection could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with Cytarabine Injection. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7 - 9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15 - 24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12 - 15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications Injection: Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic, or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine injection alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6 - 12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with Cytarabine Injection. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions anorexia oral and anal inflammation rash nausea or uclearation thrombophlebitis vomiting hepatic dysfunction bleeding (all sites) diarrhea fever Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions sepsis sore throat conjunctivitis (may occur with rash) pneumonia esophageal ulceration dizziness cellulites at injection site esophagitis alopecia skin ulceration chest pain anaphylaxis (see WARNINGS ) urinary retention pericarditis allergic edema renal dysfunction bowel necrosis pruritis neuritis abdominal pain shortness of breath neural toxicity pancreatitis urticaria freckling headache jaundice Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine injection) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine injection. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard treatment programs using cytarabine. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a preparation containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death have been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimes developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine injection and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine Injection could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with Cytarabine Injection. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7-9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15-24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12-15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications Injection: Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic, or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine injection alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with Cytarabine Injection. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions anorexia oral and anal inflammation rash nausea or ulceration thrombophlebitis vomiting hepatic dysfunction bleeding (all sites) diarrhea fever Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions sepsis sore throat conjunctivitis (may occur with rash) pneumonia esophageal ulceration dizziness cellulitis at injection site esophagitis alopecia skin ulceration chest pain anaphylaxis (see WARNINGS ) urinary retention pericarditis allergic edema renal dysfunction bowel necrosis pruritis neuritis abdominal pain shortness of breath neural toxicity pancreatitis urticaria freckling headache jaundice Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine injection) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine injection. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard treatment programs using cytarabine. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a preparation containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death have been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimes developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine injection and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine injection could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions: Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with cytarabine. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7-9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15-24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12-15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications: Infection: Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic, or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome: A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with Cytarabine Injection. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions: Anorexia, hepatic dysfunction, nausea, fever, vomiting, rash, diarrhea, thrombophlebitis, oral and anal inflammation or ulceration, bleeding (all sites). Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions: Sepsis, abdominal pain, pneumonia, freckling, cellulitis at injection site, jaundice, skin ulceration, conjunctivitis (may occur with rash), urinary retention, dizziness, renal dysfunction, alopecia, neuritis, anaphylaxis (see WARNINGS ), neural toxicity, allergic edema, sore throat, pruritus, esophageal ulceration, shortness of breath, esophagitis, urticaria, chest pain, pericarditis, headache, bowel necrosis, pancreatitis. Experimental Doses: Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of Cytarabine. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard cytarabine treatment programs. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a diluent containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimens developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with cytarabine. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7-9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15-24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12-15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications: Infection: . Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing the syndrome. If the symptoms of this syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with cytarabine. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions Anorexia, hepatic dysfunction, nausea, fever, vomiting, rash, diarrhea, thrombophlebitis, oral and anal inflammation or ulceration, bleeding (all sites). Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions. Sepsis, abdominal pain, pneumonia, freckling, cellulitis at injection site, jaundice, skin ulceration, conjunctivitis (may occur with rash), urinary retention, dizziness, renal dysfunction, alopecia, neuritis, anaphylaxis (see WARNINGS), neural toxicity, allergic edema, sore throat, pruritus, esophageal ulceration, shortness of breath, esophagitis, urticaria, chest pain, pericarditis, headache, bowel necrosis, pancreatitis. Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis.Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard cytarabine treatment programs. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a cytarabine injection containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with highdose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimens developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions: Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with cytarabine. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7-9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15-24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12-15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications: Infection: Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine Syndrome: A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing the syndrome. If the symptoms of this syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with cytarabine. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions: Anorexia, hepatic dysfunction, nausea, fever, vomiting, rash, diarrhea, thrombophlebitis, oral and anal inflammation or ulceration, bleeding (all sites). Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions: Sepsis, abdominal pain, pneumonia, freckling, cellulitis at injection site, jaundice, skin ulceration, conjunctivitis (may occur with rash), urinary retention, dizziness, renal dysfunction, alopecia, neuritis, anaphylaxis (see WARNINGS ), neural toxicity, allergic edema, sore throat, pruritus, esophageal ulceration, shortness of breath, esophagitis, urticaria, chest pain, pericarditis, headache, bowel necrosis, pancreatitis. Experimental Doses: Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard cytarabine treatment programs. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a cytarabine injection containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimens developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with cytarabine. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/ m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7-9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15-24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12-15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications Infection: Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with Cytarabine Injection. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions Anorexia, hepatic dysfunction, nausea, fever, vomiting, rash, diarrhea, thrombophlebitis, oral and anal inflammation or ulceration, bleeding (all sites). Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reaction Sepsis, abdominal pain, pneumonia, freckling, cellulites at injection site, jaundice, skin ulceration, conjunctivitis (may occur with rash), urinary retention, dizziness, renal dysfunction, alopecia, neuritis, anaphylaxis (see WARNINGS), neural toxicity, allergic edema, sore throat, pruritus, esophageal ulceration, shortness of breath, esophagitis, urticaria, chest pain, pericarditis, headache, bowel necrosis, pancreatitis. Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of Cytarabine. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard cytarabine treatment programs. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a diluent containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death have been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimens developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with cytarabine. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7 to 9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15 to 24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12 to 15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications Injection Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic, or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6 to 12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with cytarabine. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions Anorexia Oral and anal inflammation or uclearation Rash Nausea Thrombophlebitis Vomiting Hepatic dysfunction Bleeding (all sites) Diarrhea Fever Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions Sepsis Sore throat Conjunctivitis (may occur with rash) Pneumonia Esophageal ulceration Dizziness Cellulites at injection site Esophagitis Alopecia Skin ulceration Chest pain Anaphylaxis (see WARNING ) Urinary retention Pericarditis Allergic edema Renal dysfunction Bowel necrosis Pruritis Neuritis Abdominal pain Shortness of breath Neural toxicity Pancreatitis Urticaria Freckling Headache Jaundice Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard treatment programs using cytarabine. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a preparation containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death have been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimes developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine injection and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine injection could have been the causative agent."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with cytarabine. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7 to 9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelfth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15 to 24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12 to 15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications Injection Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic, or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6 to 12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with cytarabine. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions Anorexia Oral and anal inflammation or ulceration Rash Nausea Thrombophlebitis Vomiting Hepatic dysfunction Bleeding (all sites) Diarrhea Fever Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions Sepsis Sore throat Conjunctivitis (may occur with rash) Pneumonia Esophageal ulceration Dizziness Cellulitis at injection site Esophagitis Alopecia Skin ulceration Chest pain Anaphylaxis (see WARNING ) Urinary retention Pericarditis Allergic edema Renal dysfunction Bowel necrosis Pruritus Neuritis Abdominal pain Shortness of breath Neural toxicity Pancreatitis Urticaria Freckling Headache Jaundice Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard treatment programs using cytarabine. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a preparation containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death have been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimes developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine could have been the causative agent.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Expected Reactions Because cytarabine is a bone marrow suppressant, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, megaloblastosis and reduced reticulocytes can be expected as a result of administration with cytarabine. The severity of these reactions are dose and schedule dependent. Cellular changes in the morphology of bone marrow and peripheral smears can be expected. Following 5-day constant infusions or acute injections of 50 mg/m2 to 600 mg/m2, white cell depression follows a biphasic course. Regardless of initial count, dosage level, or schedule, there is an initial fall starting the first 24 hours with a nadir at days 7 to 9. This is followed by a brief rise which peaks around the twelth day. A second and deeper fall reaches nadir at days 15 to 24. Then there is a rapid rise to above baseline in the next 10 days. Platelet depression is noticeable at 5 days with a peak depression occurring between days 12 to 15. Thereupon, a rapid rise to above baseline occurs in the next 10 days. Infectious Complications Injection Viral, bacterial, fungal, parasitic, or saprophytic infections, in any location in the body may be associated with the use of cytarabine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents following immunosuppressant doses that affect cellular or humoral immunity. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. The Cytarabine (Ara-C) Syndrome A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6 to 12 hours following drug administration. Corticosteroids have been shown to be beneficial in treating or preventing this syndrome. If the symptoms of the syndrome are deemed treatable, corticosteroids should be contemplated as well as continuation of therapy with cytarabine. Most Frequent Adverse Reactions Anorexia Oral and anal inflammation Rash Nausea or uclearation Thrombophlebitis Vomiting Hepatic dysfunction Bleeding (all sites) Diarrhea Fever Nausea and vomiting are most frequent following rapid intravenous injection. Less Frequent Adverse Reactions Sepsis Sore throat Conjunctivitis (may occur with rash) Pneumonia Esophageal ulceration Dizziness Cellulites at injection site Esophagitis Alopecia Skin ulceration Chest pain Anaphylaxis (see WARNING) Urinary retention Pericarditis Allergic edema Renal dysfunction Bowel necrosis Pruritis Neuritis Abdominal pain Shortness of breath Neural toxicity Pancreatitis Urticaria Freckling Headache Jaundice Experimental Doses Severe and at times fatal CNS, GI and pulmonary toxicity (different from that seen with conventional therapy regimens of cytarabine) has been reported following some experimental dose schedules of cytarabine. These reactions include reversible corneal toxicity and hemorrhagic conjunctivitis, which may be prevented or diminished by prophylaxis with a local corticosteroid eye drop; cerebral and cerebellar dysfunction, including personality changes, somnolence and coma, usually reversible; severe gastrointestinal ulceration, including pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis leading to peritonitis; sepsis and liver abscess; pulmonary edema, liver damage with increased hyperbilirubinemia; bowel necrosis; and necrotizing colitis. Rarely, severe skin rash, leading to desquamation has been reported. Complete alopecia is more commonly seen with experimental high dose therapy than with standard treatment programs using cytarabine. If experimental high dose therapy is used, do not use a preparation containing benzyl alcohol. Cases of cardiomyopathy with subsequent death have been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide when used for bone marrow transplant preparation. This cardiac toxicity may be schedule dependent. A syndrome of sudden respiratory distress, rapidly progressing to pulmonary edema and radiographically pronounced cardiomegaly has been reported following experimental high dose therapy with cytarabine used for the treatment of relapsed leukemia from one institution in 16/72 patients. The outcome of this syndrome can be fatal. Two patients with adult acute non-lymphocytic leukemia developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation with high-dose cytarabine, daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Patients treated with high-dose cytarabine should be observed for neuropathy since dose schedule alterations may be needed to avoid irreversible neurologic disorders. Ten patients treated with experimental intermediate doses of cytarabine (1 g/m2) with and without other chemotherapeutic agents (meta-AMSA, daunorubicin, etoposide) at various dose regimes developed a diffuse interstitial pneumonitis without clear cause that may have been related to the cytarabine. Two cases of pancreatitis have been reported following experimental doses of cytarabine injection and numerous other drugs. Cytarabine injection could have been the causative agent."$$
"Drug Interactions Reversible decreases in steady-state plasma digoxin concentrations and renal glycoside excretion were observed in patients receiving beta-acetyldigoxin and chemotherapy regimens containing cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone with or without cytarabine or procarbazine. Steady-state plasma digitoxin concentrations did not appear to change. Therefore, monitoring of plasma digoxin levels may be indicated in patients receiving similar combination chemotherapy regimens. The utilization of digitoxin for such patients may be considered as an alternative. An in vitro interaction study between gentamicin and cytarabine showed a cytarabine related antagonism for the susceptibility of K. pneumoniae strains. This study suggests that in patients on cytarabine being treated with gentamicin for a K. pneumoniae infection, the lack of a prompt therapeutic response may indicate the need for re-evaluation of antibacterial therapy. Clinical evidence in one patient showed possible inhibition of fluorocytosine efficacy during therapy with cytarabine. This may be due to potential competitive inhibition of its uptake."$$
"Drug Interactions Reversible decreases in steady-state plasma digoxin concentrations and renal glycoside excretion were observed in patients receiving beta-acetyldigoxin and chemotherapy regimens containing cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone with or without cytarabine or procarbazine. Steady-state plasma digitoxin concentrations did not appear to change. Therefore, monitoring of plasma digoxin levels may be indicated in patients receiving similar combination chemotherapy regimens. The utilization of digitoxin for such patients may be considered as an alternative. An in vitro interaction study between gentamicin and cytarabine showed a cytarabine related antagonism for the susceptibility of K. pneumoniae strains. This study suggests that in patients on cytarabine being treated with gentamicin for a K. pneumoniae infection, the lack of a prompt therapeutic response may indicate the need for reevaluation of antibacterial therapy. Clinical evidence in one patient showed possible inhibition of fluorocytosine efficacy during therapy with cytarabine. This may be due to potential competitive inhibition of its uptake."$$
