"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) and skin reactions have been reported with glycopeptide antibacterial agents, including DALVANCE; exercise caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to glycopeptides. (5.1) Rapid intravenous infusion of glycopeptide antibacterial agents can cause reactions. (5.2) ALT elevations with DALVANCE treatment were reported in clinical trials. (5.3) Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with nearly all systemic antibacterial agents, including DALVANCE. Evaluate if diarrhea occurs. (5.4) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) and skin reactions have been reported in patients treated with DALVANCE. If an allergic reaction occurs, treatment with DALVANCE should be discontinued. Before using DALVANCE, inquire carefully about previous hypersensitivity reactions to glycopeptides, and due to the possibility of cross-sensitivity, exercise caution in patients with a history of glycopeptide allergy [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.2 Infusion-Related Reactions DALVANCE is administered via intravenous infusion, using a total infusion time of 30 minutes to minimize the risk of infusion-related reactions. Rapid intravenous infusions of DALVANCE can cause reactions that resemble "Red-Man Syndrome," including flushing of the upper body, urticaria, pruritus, and/or rash. Stopping or slowing the infusion may result in cessation of these reactions. 5.3 Hepatic Effects In Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, more DALVANCE than comparator-treated subjects with normal baseline transaminase levels had post-baseline alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevation greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Overall, abnormalities in liver tests (ALT, AST, bilirubin) were reported with similar frequency in the DALVANCE and comparator arms [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.4 Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported in users of nearly all systemic antibacterial drugs, including DALVANCE, with severity ranging from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents can alter the normal flora of the colon, and may permit overgrowth of C. difficile. C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin-producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antibacterial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use. Careful medical history is necessary because CDAD has been reported to occur more than 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C. difficile should be discontinued, if possible. Appropriate measures such as fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibacterial treatment of C. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. 5.5 Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria Prescribing DALVANCE in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions in patients treated with DALVANCE were nausea (4.7%), headache (3.8%), and diarrhea (3.4%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Durata Therapeutics, Inc. at 1-855-387-2825 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of DALVANCE cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect rates observed in practice. Adverse reactions were evaluated for 2473 patients treated with DALVANCE: 1778 patients were treated with DALVANCE in seven Phase 2/3 trials comparing DALVANCE to comparator antibacterial drugs and 695 patients were treated with DALVANCE in one Phase 3 trial comparing DALVANCE single and two-dose regimens. A causal relationship between study drug and adverse reactions was not always established. The median age of patients treated with DALVANCE was 48 years, ranging between 16 and 93 years. Patients treated with DALVANCE were predominantly male (59.5%) and White (81.2%). Serious Adverse Reactions and Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Serious adverse reactions occurred in 121/2473 (4.9%) of patients treated with any regimen of DALVANCE. In the Phase 2/3 trials comparing DALVANCE to comparator, serious adverse reactions occurred in 109/1778 (6.1%) of patients in the DALVANCE group and 80/1224 (6.5%) of patients in the comparator group. In a Phase 3 trial comparing DALVANCE single and two-dose regimens, serious adverse reactions occurred in 7/349 (2.0%) of patients in the DALVANCE single dose group and 5/346 (1.4%) of patients in the DALVANCE two-dose group. DALVANCE was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 64/2473 (2.6%) patients treated with any regimen of DALVANCE. In the Phase 2/3 trials comparing DALVANCE to comparator, DALVANCE was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 53/1778 (3.0%) of patients in the DALVANCE group and 35/1224 (2.9%) of patients in the comparator group. In a Phase 3 trial comparing DALVANCE single and two-dose regimens, DALVANCE was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 6/349 (1.7%) of patients in the DALVANCE single dose group and 5/346 (1.4%) of patients in the DALVANCE two-dose group. Most Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions in patients treated with DALVANCE were nausea (4.7%), headache (3.8%), and diarrhea (3.4%). The median duration of adverse reactions was 3.0 days in patients treated with DALVANCE. In the Phase 2/3 trials comparing DALVANCE to comparator, the median duration of adverse reactions was 3.0 days for patients in the DALVANCE group and 4.0 days in patients in the comparator group. In a Phase 3 trial comparing DALVANCE single and two-dose regimens, the median duration of adverse reactions was 3.0 days for patients in the DALVANCE single and two-dose group. Table 2 lists selected adverse reactions occurring in 2% or more of patients treated with DALVANCE in Phase 2/3 clinical trials. Table 2. Selected Adverse Reactions Occurring in >= 2% of Patients Receiving DALVANCE in Phase 2/3 Trials (Number (%) of Patients) * Comparators included linezolid, cefazolin, cephalexin, and vancomycin. Adverse Reactions DALVANCE Comparator* (N = 1778) (N = 1224) Nausea 98 (5.5) 78 (6.4) Vomiting 50 (2.8) 37 (3) Diarrhea 79 (4.4) 72 (5.9) Headache 83 (4.7) 59 (4.8) Rash 48 (2.7) 30 (2.4) Pruritus 38 (2.1) 41 (3.3) In the Phase 3 trial comparing the single and two-dose regimen of DALVANCE, the adverse reaction that occurred in 2% or more of patients treated with DALVANCE was nausea (3.4% in the DALVANCE single dose group and 2% in the DALVANCE two-dose group). The following selected adverse reactions were reported in DALVANCE treated patients at a rate of less than 2% in these clinical trials: Blood and lymphatic system disorders: anemia, hemorrhagic anemia, leucopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, petechiae, eosinophilia, thrombocytosis Gastrointestinal disorders: gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, hematochezia, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: infusion-related reactions Hepatobiliary disorders: hepatotoxicity Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: Clostridium difficile colitis, oral candidiasis, vulvovaginal mycotic infection Investigations: hepatic transaminases increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, international normalized ratio increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, gamma-glutamyl transferase increased Metabolism and nutrition disorders: hypoglycemia Nervous system disorders: dizziness Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: bronchospasm Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: rash, pruritus, urticaria Vascular disorders: flushing, phlebitis, wound hemorrhage, spontaneous hematoma Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) Elevations Among patients with normal baseline ALT levels treated with DALVANCE 17 (0.8%) had post-baseline ALT elevations greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) including five subjects with post-baseline ALT values greater than 10 times ULN. Among patients with normal baseline ALT levels treated with non-DALVANCE comparators 2 (0.2%) had post-baseline ALT elevations greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal. Fifteen of the 17 patients treated with DALVANCE and one comparator patient had underlying conditions which could affect liver enzymes, including chronic viral hepatitis, history of alcohol abuse and metabolic syndrome. In addition, one DALVANCE-treated subject in a Phase 1 trial had post-baseline ALT elevations greater than 20 times ULN. ALT elevations were reversible in all subjects with follow-up assessments. No comparator-treated subject with normal baseline transaminases had post-baseline ALT elevation greater than 10 times ULN."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Drug-laboratory test interactions have not been reported. DALVANCE at therapeutic concentrations does not artificially prolong prothrombin time (PT) or activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT). 7.2 Drug-Drug Interactions No clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with DALVANCE. There is minimal potential for drug-drug interactions between DALVANCE and cytochrome P450 (CYP450) substrates, inhibitors, or inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
