"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis have been reported with systemic use of quinolones. Discontinue use if this occurs with use of CIPRODEX. (5.1) Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. (5.2) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions CIPRODEX should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, angioedema (including laryngeal, pharyngeal or facial edema), airway obstruction, dyspnea, urticaria and itching. 5.2 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use Prolonged use of CIPRODEX may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible, bacteria and fungi. If the infection is not improved after one week of treatment, cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. 5.3 Continued or Recurrent Otorrhea If otorrhea persists after a full course of therapy, or if two or more episodes of otorrhea occur within six months, further evaluation is recommended to exclude an underlying condition such as cholesteatoma, foreign body, or a tumor."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Intraocular pressure (IOP) increase-Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve, defects in visual acuity and fields of vision. If this product is used for 10 days or longer, IOP should be monitored. (5.1). - Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur. ( 5.2 ) - Cataracts- Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation. ( 5.3 ) - Delayed healing- The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation. In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera, perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids. The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and, where appropriate, fluorescein staining. ( 5.4 ) - Bacterial infections- Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections. In acute purulent conditions, steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days, the patient should be re-evaluated. ( 5.5 ) - Viral infections- Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution. Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye (including herpes simplex). ( 5.6 ) - Fungal infections- Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term local steroid application. Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use. ( 5.7 ) - If product is used in combination with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics the patient should be monitored for total serum concentration of tobramycin. ( 5.8 ) 5.1 IOP increase Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve, defects in visual acuity and fields of vision. If this product is used for 10 days or longer, IOP should be monitored. 5.2 Aminoglycoside sensitivity Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur. 5.3 Cataracts Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation. 5.4 Delayed Healing The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation. In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera, perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids. The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification such as slit lamp biomicroscopy and, where appropriate, fluorescein staining. 5.5 Bacterial infections Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections. In acute purulent conditions, steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after 2 days, the patient should be re-evaluated. 5.6 Viral infections Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution. Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye (including herpes simplex). 5.7 Fungal infections Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term local steroid application. Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use. 5.8 Use with systemic aminoglycosides If product is used in combination with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics the patient should be monitored for total serum concentration."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Intravitreal injections have been associated with endophthalmitis, eye inflammation, increased intraocular pressure, and retinal detachments. Patients should be monitored following the injection. (5.1) Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. (5.2) 5.1 Intravitreal Injection-related Effects Intravitreal injections, including those with OZURDEX (R), have been associated with endophthalmitis, eye inflammation, increased intraocular pressure, and retinal detachments. Patients should be monitored regularly following the injection [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.2 Steroid-related Effects Use of corticosteroids including OZURDEX (R) may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, increased intraocular pressure, and glaucoma. Use of corticosteroids may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Corticosteroids are not recommended to be used in patients with a history of ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for reactivation of the viral infection."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin (TOBREX(R)) are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including eye pain, eyelids pruritus, eyelid edema, and conjunctival hyperemia. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. The reactions due to the steroid component are: increased intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve disorder; subcapsular cataract; and impaired healing. Secondary Infection. The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs. Non-ocular adverse events occurring at an incidence of 0.5% to 1% included headache and increased blood pressure. Most common adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including eye pain, eyelids pruritus, eyelid edema, and conjunctival hyperemia. The reactions due to the steroid component are increases in intraocular pressure with possible development of glaucoma. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Alcon Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-757-9195 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled studies, the most common adverse reactions reported by 20-70% of patients were cataract, increased intraocular pressure and conjunctival hemorrhage. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Allergan at 1-800-433-8871 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adverse reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids including OZURDEX (R) include elevated intraocular pressure, which may be associated with optic nerve damage, visual acuity and field defects, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex, and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera. Retinal Vein Occlusion and Posterior Segment Uveitis The following information is based on the combined clinical trial results from 3 initial, randomized, 6-month, sham-controlled studies (2 for retinal vein occlusion and 1 for posterior segment uveitis): Table 1: Adverse Reactions Reported by Greater than 2% of Patients MedDRA Term OZURDEX (R) N=497 (%) Sham N=498 (%) Intraocular pressure increased 125 (25%) 10 (2%) Conjunctival hemorrhage 108 (22%) 79 (16%) Eye pain 40 (8%) 26 (5%) Conjunctival hyperemia 33 (7%) 27 (5%) Ocular hypertension 23 (5%) 3 (1%) Cataract 24 (5%) 10 (2%) Vitreous detachment 12 (2%) 8 (2%) Headache 19 (4%) 12 (2%) Increased IOP with OZURDEX (R) peaked at approximately week 8. During the initial treatment period, 1% (3/421) of the patients who received OZURDEX (R) required surgical procedures for management of elevated IOP. Following a second injection of OZURDEX (R) in cases where a second injection was indicated, the overall incidence of cataracts was higher after 1 year. Diabetic Macular Edema The following information is based on the combined clinical trial results from 2 randomized, 3-year, sham-controlled studies in patients with diabetic macular edema. Discontinuation rates due to the adverse reactions listed in Table 2 were 3% in the OZURDEX (R) group and 1% in the Sham group. The most common ocular (study eye) and non-ocular adverse reactions are shown in Tables 2 and 3: Table 2: Ocular Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 1% of Patients and Non-ocular Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 5% of Patients 1 Includes cataract, cataract nuclear, cataract subcapsular, lenticular opacities in patients who were phakic at baseline. Among these patients, 61% of OZURDEX (R) subjects vs. 8% of sham-controlled subjects underwent cataract surgery. 2 243 of the 324 OZURDEX (R) subjects were phakic at baseline; 230 of 328 sham-controlled subjects were phakic at baseline. MedDRA Term OZURDEX (R) N=324 (%) Sham N=328 (%) Ocular Cataract1 166/2432 (68%) 49/230 (21%) Conjunctival hemorrhage 73 (23%) 44 (13%) Visual acuity reduced 28 (9%) 13 (4%) Conjunctivitis 19 (6%) 8 (2%) Vitreous floaters 16 (5%) 6 (2%) Conjunctival edema 15 (5%) 4 (1%) Dry eye 15 (5%) 7 (2%) Vitreous detachment 14 (4%) 8 (2%) Vitreous opacities 11 (3%) 3 (1%) Retinal aneurysm 10 (3%) 5 (2%) Foreign body sensation 7 (2%) 4 (1%) Corneal erosion 7 (2%) 3 (1%) Keratitis 6 (2%) 3 (1%) Anterior Chamber Inflammation 6 (2%) 0 (0%) Retinal tear 5 (2%) 2 (1%) Eyelid ptosis 5 (2%) 2 (1%) Non-ocular Hypertension 41 (13%) 21 (6%) Bronchitis 15 (5%) 8 (2%) Increased Intraocular Pressure Table 3: Summary of Elevated Intraocular Pressure (IOP) Related Adverse Reactions * OZURDEX (R): 1 surgical trabeculectomy for steroid-induced IOP increase, 1 surgical trabeculectomy for iris neovascularization, 1 laser iridotomy, 1 surgical iridectomy Sham: 1 laser iridotomy IOP Treatment: N (%) OZURDEX (R) N=324 Sham N=328 IOP elevation >=10 mm Hg from Baseline at any visit 91 (28%) 13 (4%) >=30 mm Hg IOP at any visit 50 (15%) 5 (2%) Any IOP lowering medication 136 (42%) 32 (10%) Any surgical intervention for elevated IOP * 4 (1.2%) 1 (0.3%) The increase in mean IOP was seen with each treatment cycle, and the mean IOP generally returned to baseline between treatment cycles (at the end of the 6 month period) shown below: Figure 1: Mean IOP during the study Figure 1 Cataracts and Cataract Surgery At baseline, 243 of the 324 OZURDEX (R) subjects were phakic; 230 of 328 sham-controlled subjects were phakic. The incidence of cataract development in patients who had a phakic study eye was higher in the OZURDEX (R) group (68%) compared with Sham (21%). The median time of cataract being reported as an adverse event was approximately 15 months in the OZURDEX (R) group and 12 months in the Sham group. Among these patients, 61% of OZURDEX (R) subjects vs. 8% of sham-controlled subjects underwent cataract surgery, generally between Month 18 and Month 39 (Median Month 21 for OZURDEX (R) group and 20 for Sham) of the studies. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following reactions have been identified during post-marketing use of OZURDEX (R) in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to OZURDEX (R), or a combination of these factors, include: complication of device insertion (implant misplacement), device dislocation with or without corneal edema, endophthalmitis, hypotony of the eye (associated with vitreous leakage due to injection), and retinal detachment."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Most common adverse reactions were ear discomfort (3%), ear pain (2.3%), and ear pruritus (1.5%). (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Alcon at 1-800-757-9195 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In Phases II and III clinical trials, a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX. This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes and 537 patients with acute otitis externa. The reported adverse reactions are listed below: Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients with Tympanostomy Tubes The following adverse reactions occurred in 0.5% or more of the patients with non-intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Reactions Incidence (N=400) Ear discomfort 3.0% Ear pain 2.3% Ear precipitate (residue) 0.5% Irritability 0.5% Taste Perversion 0.5% The following adverse reactions were each reported in a single patient: tympanostomy tube blockage; ear pruritus; tinnitus; oral moniliasis; crying; dizziness; and erythema. Acute Otitis Externa The following adverse reactions occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes Adverse Reactions Incidence (N=537) Ear pruritus 1.5% Ear debris 0.6% Superimposed ear infection 0.6% Ear congestion 0.4% Ear pain 0.4% Erythema 0.4% The following adverse reactions were each reported in a single patient: ear discomfort; decreased hearing; and ear disorder (tingling). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of CIPRODEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reactions include: auricular swelling, headache, hypersensitivity, otorrhea, skin exfoliation, rash erythematous, and vomiting."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of corticosteroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Corticosteroid-containing preparations have also been reported to cause perforation of the globe. Keratitis, conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, and conjunctival hyperemia have occasionally been reported following use of steroids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of corticosteroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredient are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the antiinfective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Corticosteroid-containing preparations have also been reported to cause perforation of the globe. Keratitis, conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, and conjunctival hyperemia have occasionally been reported following use of steroids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the antiinfective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary infection has occurred after use of combination containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC at (414) 434-6604, Monday-Friday 9am-5pm EST, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of the secondary infection has occurred after use of combination containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin (TOBREX(R)) are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin (TOBREX(R) tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin (TOBREX(R) tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection. The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin [TOBREX(R) (tobramycin ophthalmic solution)] are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection. The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin [TOBREX(R)* (tobramycin ophthalmic solution)] are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Sodium retention, Fluid retention, Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, Potassium loss, Hypokalemic alkalosis, and Hypertension. Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness, Steroid myopathy, Loss of muscle mass, Osteoporosis, Vertebral compression fractures, Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, Pathologic fracture of long bones, Tendon rupture. Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, Pancreatitis, Abdominal distention, and Ulcerative esophagitis. Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing, Thin fragile skin, Petechiae and ecchymoses, Erythema, Increased sweating, May suppress reactions to skin tests, Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, and angioneurotic edema. Neurologic: Convulsions, Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment, Vertigo, Headache, and Psychic disturbances. Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities, Development of cushingoid state, Suppression of growth in children, Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness, Decreased carbohydrate tolerance, Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics, and Hirsutism. Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts, Increased intraocular pressure, Glaucoma, and Exophthalmos. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Other: Hypersensitivity, Thromboembolism, Weight gain, Increased appetite, Nausea, Malaise, and Hiccups."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Pathologic fracture of lang bones Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired would healing thin fagile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerbri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Pathologic fracture of long bones Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Pathologic fracture of long bones Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatological: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Facial erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Petechiae and ecchymoses Neurological: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Miscellaneous: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Postinjection flare, following intra-articular use Charcot-like arthropathy Itching, burning, tingling in the ano-genital region"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic Disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (See WARNINGS ) Other: Hypersensitivity Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after I.V. injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS). Other Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Postinjection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic Impaired wound healing Thin, fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Other Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Postinjection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ). Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS.) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"Adverse Reactions Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness. Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increasaed intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight Gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation of hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcol-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcot-like arthropathy",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Osteoporosis Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Vertebral compression fractures Loss of muscle mass Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage Ulcerative esophagitis Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Erythema May suppress reactions to skin tests Petechiae and ecchymoses Increased sweating Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Vertigo Headache Psychic Disturbances Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Suppression of growth in children Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (See WARNINGS ) Other: Hypersensitivity Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculosketal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechise and ecohymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertenstion Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and acchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous ractions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic adema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased apetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkolosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with pailledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ). Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reaction are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Glaucoma with optic nerve damage, visual acuity and field defects; cataract formation; secondary ocular infection following suppression of host response; and perforation of the globe may occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Glaucoma with optic nerve damage, visual acuity and field defects, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex, perforation of the globe. Rarely, filtering blebs have been reported when topical steroids have been used following cataract surgery. Rarely, stinging or burning may occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Glaucoma with optic nerve damage, visual acuity and field defects, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex, perforation of the globe. Rarely, filtering blebs have been reported when topical steroids have been used following cataract surgery. Rarely, stinging or burning may occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In Phases II and III clinical trials, a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX(R) Otic. This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes and 537 patients with acute otitis externa. The reported treatment-related adverse events are listed below: Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.5% or more of the patients with non-intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=400) Ear discomfort 3.0% Ear pain 2.3% Ear precipitate (residue) 0.5% Irritability 0.5% Taste perversion 0.5% The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: tympanostomy tube blockage; ear pruritus; tinnitus; oral moniliasis; crying; dizziness; and erythema. Acute Otitis Externa The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=537) Ear pruritus 1.5% Ear debris 0.6% Superimposed ear infection 0.6% Ear congestion 0.4% Ear pain 0.4% Erythema 0.4% The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes. The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: ear discomfort; decreased hearing; and ear disorder (tingling)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In Phases II and III clinical trials, a total of 937 patients were treated with CIPRODEX(R) Otic. This included 400 patients with acute otitis media with tympanostomy tubes and 537 patients with acute otitis externa. The reported treatment-related adverse events are listed below: Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.5% or more of the patients with non-intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=400) Ear discomfort 3.0% Ear pain 2.3% Ear precipitate (residue) 0.5% Irritability 0.5% Taste perversion 0.5% The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: tympanostomy tube blockage; ear pruritus; tinnitus; oral moniliasis; crying; dizziness; and erythema. Acute Otitis Externa The following treatment-related adverse events occurred in 0.4% or more of the patients with intact tympanic membranes. Adverse Event Incidence (N=537) Ear pruritus 1.5% Ear debris 0.6% Superimposed ear infection 0.6% Ear congestion 0.4% Ear pain 0.4% Erythema 0.4% The following treatment-related adverse events were each reported in a single patient: ear discomfort; decreased hearing; and ear disorder (tingling)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see : ), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. WARNINGS Cardio-Renal Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic Reactions: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS, Cardio-renal ), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large bowel (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic Reactions: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS, Cardio-renal), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large bowel (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"Adverse Reactions (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS: Cardio-Renal), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS, Cardio-renal), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS: Cardio-Renal), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic ReactionsAnaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. CardiovascularBradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS: Cardio-Renal), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. DermatologicAcne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. EndocrineDecreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte DisturbancesCongestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. GastrointestinalAbdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. MetabolicNegative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. MusculoskeletalAseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/PsychiatricConvulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. OphthalmicExophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. OtherAbnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (Listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS: Cardio-Renal ), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the antiinfective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti-infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Corticosteroid-containing preparations have also been reported to cause perforation of the globe. Keratitis, conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, and conjunctival hyperemia have occasionally been reported following use of steroids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) The following adverse reactions have been reported with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids: Allergic Reactions: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS, Cardio-renal), edema, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, erythema, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, striae, suppression of reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large bowel (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurological/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Impaired wound healing Thin, fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Postinjection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs and of ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine."$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytoxic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.",$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytoxic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents."$$
"Drug Interactions"$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST) False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections: Vaccination)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST): False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine: Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including Oral Contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates: Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin: In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide: Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines: Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections, Vaccination )."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST): False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine: Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including Oral Contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates: Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin: In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide: Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines: Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections, Vaccination)."$$
"Drug interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST) False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections: Vaccination). Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether corticosteroids have a potential for carcinogenesis or mutagenesis. Steroids may increase or decrease motility and number of spermatozoa in some patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-depleting Agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST): False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine: Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates: Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity ( e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 ( e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 ( e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin: In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide: Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines: Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections: Vaccination ). Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility: No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether corticosteroids have a potential for carcinogenesis or mutagenesis. Steroids may increase or decrease motility and number of spermatozoa in some patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-depleting Agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST): False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine: Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates: Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin: In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide: Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines: Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections: Vaccination ). Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility: No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether corticosteroids have a potential for carcinogenesis or mutagenesis. Steroids may increase or decrease motility and number of spermatozoa in some patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST) False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity ( ) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 ( ) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 ( ) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin e.g., indinavir, erythromycin Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see : : ). WARNINGS Infections Vaccination"$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme lnducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone suppression test (DST) False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme lnducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-administration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme lnducers, Inhibitors and Substrates). Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone suppression test (DST) False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme lnducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-administration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination)."$$
"Drug Interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with CIPRODEX(R) Otic. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Long-term carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats have been completed for ciprofloxacin. After daily oral doses of 750 mg/kg (mice) and 250 mg/kg (rats) were administered for up to 2 years, there was no evidence that ciprofloxacin had any carcinogenic or tumorigenic effects in these species. No long term studies of CIPRODEX(R) Otic have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential. Eight in vitro mutagenicity tests have been conducted with ciprofloxacin, and the test results are listed below: Salmonella/Microsome Test (Negative) E. coli DNA Repair Assay (Negative) Mouse Lymphoma Cell Forward Mutation Assay (Positive) Chinese Hamster V79 Cell HGPRT Test (Negative) Syrian Hamster Embryo Cell Transformation Assay (Negative) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Point Mutation Assay (Negative) Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mitotic Crossover and Gene Conversion Assay (Negative) Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay (Positive) Thus, 2 of the 8 tests were positive, but results of the following 3 in vivo test systems gave negative results: Rat Hepatocyte DNA Repair Assay Micronucleus Test (Mice) Dominant Lethal Test (Mice) Fertility studies performed in rats at oral doses of ciprofloxacin up to 100 mg/kg/day revealed no evidence of impairment. This would be over 100 times the maximum recommended clinical dose of ototopical ciprofloxacin based upon body surface area, assuming total absorption of ciprofloxacin from the ear of a patient treated with CIPRODEX(R) Otic twice per day according to label directions. Long term studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of topical otic dexamethasone. Dexamethasone has been tested for in vitro and in vivo genotoxic potential and shown to be positive in the following assays; chromosomal aberrations, sister-chromatid exchange in human lymphocytes and micronuclei and sister-chromatid exchanges in mouse bone marrow. However, the Ames/Salmonella assay, both with and without S9 mix, did not show any increase in His+ revertants. The effect of dexamethasone on fertility has not been investigated following topical otic application. However, the lowest toxic dose of dexamethasone identified following topical dermal application was 1.802 mg/kg in a 26-week study in male rats and resulted in changes to the testes, epididymis, sperm duct, prostate, seminal vessicle, Cowper's gland and accessory glands. The relevance of this study for short term topical otic use is unknown."$$
"Warnings and Precautions General Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Cardio-Renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for corticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Adrenocortical insufficiency may result from too rapid withdrawal of corticosteroids and may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. If the patient is receiving steroids already, dosage may have to be increased. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. Infections General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infection with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild to severe. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control life-threatening drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions: Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. Viral infections Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immune globulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for VZIG and IG for complete prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. PRECAUTIONS General The lowest possible dose of corticosteroids should be used to control the condition under treatment. When reduction in dosage is possible, the reduction should be gradual. Since complications of treatment with corticosteroids are dependent on the size of the dose and the duration of treatment, a risk/benefit decision must be made in each individual case as to dose and duration of treatment and as to whether daily or intermittent therapy should be used. Kaposi's sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement. Cardio-Renal As sodium retention with resultant edema and potassium loss may occur in patients receiving corticosteroids, these agents should be used with caution in patients with congestive heart failure, hypertension, or renal insufficiency. Endocrine Drug-induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired, salt and/or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently. Gastrointestinal Steroids should be used with caution in active or latent peptic ulcers, diverticulitis, fresh intestinal anastomoses, and nonspecific ulcerative colitis, since they may increase the risk of a perforation. Signs of peritoneal irritation following gastrointestinal perforation in patients receiving corticosteroids may be minimal or absent. There is an enhanced effect due to decreased metabolism of corticosteroids in patients with cirrhosis. Musculoskeletal Corticosteroids decrease bone formation and increase bone resorption both through their effect on calcium regulation (i.e., decreasing absorption and increasing excretion) and inhibition of osteoblast function. This, together with a decrease in the protein matrix of the bone secondary to an increase in protein catabolism, and reduced sex hormone production, may lead to inhibition of bone growth in pediatric patients and the development of osteoporosis at any age. Special consideration should be given to patients at increased risk of osteoporosis (e.g., postmenopausal women) before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Neuro-Psychiatric Although controlled clinical trials have shown corticosteroids to be effective in speeding the resolution of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, they do not show that they affect the ultimate outcome or natural history of the disease. The studies do show that relatively high doses of corticosteroids are necessary to demonstrate a significant effect. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids, most often occurring in patients with disorders of neuromuscular transmission (e.g., myasthenia gravis), or in patients receiving concomitant therapy with neuromuscular blocking drugs (e.g., pancuronium). This acute myopathy is generalized, may involve ocular and respiratory muscles, and may result in quadriparesis. Elevation of creatinine kinase may occur. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping corticosteroids may require weeks to years. Psychic derangements may appear when corticosteroids are used, ranging from euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, and severe depression, to frank psychotic manifestations. Also, existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids. Ophthalmic lntraocular pressure may become elevated in some individuals. If steroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks, intraocular pressure should be monitored. PLEASE REVIEW THE MANUFACTURER'S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION AT THIS FDA SITE: http://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/lookup.cfm?setid=b15200fb-1826-472b-a907-e677a272513b"$$
