
"ADVERSE REACTIONS:",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Practice: The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The events, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, epithelial breakdown, and superficial punctate keratitis, (see PRECAUTIONS, General). Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 5% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, injection, iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Clinical Practice: The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The events which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic Solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, epithelial breakdown, and superficial punctate keratitis (see Precautions, General). Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 5% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, injection, iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Practice: The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The events, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, epithelial breakdown, and superficial punctate keratitis, (see PRECAUTIONS, General ). Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 5% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 10% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, eye pain, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting. Clinical Practice: The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, and epithelial breakdown (see PRECAUTIONS, General)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients using Diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 10% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, eye pain, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder, and ocular allergy. Systemic The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection and vomiting. Clinical Practice The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration and epithelilal breakdown (see PRECAUTIONS, General). TO REPORT SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Altaire Pharmaceuticals, Inc., at 1-800-258-2471 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Ocular Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Voltaren Ophthalmic. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Voltaren Ophthalmic, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 10% or less of patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, eye pain, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder, and ocular allergy. Systemic The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting. Clinical Practice The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration and epithelial breakdown, (see PRECAUTIONS, General)."$$
