"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (5.3) Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (5.4, 7) Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of ARTHROTEC in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure (5.5) Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of ARTHROTEC in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (5.6) Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (5.7) Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: ARTHROTEC is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity) (5.8) Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue ARTHROTEC at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity (5.9) Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnancy. Diclofenac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. (5.10, 8.1) Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia (5.11, 7) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4)]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of ARTHROTEC in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If ARTHROTEC is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at high risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue ARTHROTEC until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.3 Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials with ARTHROTEC, meaningful elevation of ALT (SGPT, more than 3 times the ULN [ULN = the upper limit of the normal range]) occurred in 1.6% of 2,184 patients treated with ARTHROTEC and in 1.4% of 1,691 patients treated with diclofenac sodium. These increases were generally transient, and enzyme levels returned to within the normal range upon discontinuation of therapy with ARTHROTEC. The misoprostol component of ARTHROTEC does not appear to exacerbate the hepatic effects caused by the diclofenac sodium component. In clinical trials of diclofenac-containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2-6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of patients and included marked elevations (i.e., greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3-8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), ARTHROTEC should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue ARTHROTEC immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver related event in patients treated with ARTHROTEC, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing ARTHROTEC with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., antibiotics, anti-epileptics). 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including ARTHROTEC, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.5 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of ARTHROTEC in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If ARTHROTEC is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. 5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of ARTHROTEC in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of ARTHROTEC may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with pre-existing renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating ARTHROTEC. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of ARTHROTEC [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Avoid the use of ARTHROTEC in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If ARTHROTEC is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac/misoprostol has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac/misoprostol and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, ARTHROTEC is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4)]. When ARTHROTEC is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of ARTHROTEC at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. ARTHROTEC is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Diclofenac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. ARTHROTEC is contraindicated in pregnant woment. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiation of ARTHOTEC. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with ARTHROTEC [see Contraindications (4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. 5.11 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with ARTHROTEC has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including ARTHROTEC, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant use of warfarin and other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), and serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of ARTHROTEC in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.13 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and a chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.6)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (5.3) - Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (5.4, 7) - Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of DYLOJECT in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure (5.5) - Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of DYLOJECT in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (5.6) - Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (5.7) - Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: DYLOJECT is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity) (5.8) - Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue DYLOJECT at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity. (5.9) - Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation (5.10, 8.1) - Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia (5.11, 7) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4) ]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of DYLOJECT in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If DYLOJECT is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. DYLOJECT is administered by intravenous injection and is intended for acute short term use. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated Patients: -Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. -Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. -Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. -Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. oIf a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment and discontinue DYLOJECT until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. oIn the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.3 Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of oral diclofenac-containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2-6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3-8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female sex, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. DYLOJECT is not indicated for long-term treatment. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g. eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), DYLOJECT should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue DYLOJECT immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with diclofenac, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing DYLOJECT with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, anti-epileptics). 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including DYLOJECT, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.5 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Avoid the use of DYLOJECT in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If DYLOJECT is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. 5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. DYLOJECT is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency and is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency in the perioperative period and who are at risk for volume depletion. Acute renal decompensation was observed in 4% out of 68 patients enrolled with renal impairment and treated with DYLOJECT in clinical trials in the perioperative period. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating DYLOJECT. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of DYLOJECT [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Avoid the use of DYLOJECT in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If DYLOJECT is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, DYLOJECT is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4) ]. When DYLOJECT is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of DYLOJECT at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. DYLOJECT is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4) ]. 5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Diclofenac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including DYLOJECT, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. 5.11 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with DYLOJECT has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including DYLOJECT, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders, concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of DYLOJECT in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.13 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.6)]. DYLOJECT is not indicated for long-term treatment.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (5.3) Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (5.4, 7) Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of PENNSAID in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure (5.5) Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of PENNSAID in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (5.6) Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (5.7) Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity) (5.8) Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue PENNSAID at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity. (5.9, 5.14) Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation (5.10, 8.1) Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia (5.11, 7). Exposure to light: Avoid exposure of treated knee(s) to natural or artificial sunlight. (5.11) Eye Contact: Avoid contact of PENNSAID with eyes and mucosa. (5.15) Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs: Avoid concurrent use with oral NSAIDs. (5.16) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4) ]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of PENNSAID in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If PENNSAID is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue PENNSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.3 Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of oral diclofenac containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac for 2 - 6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3 to 8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with oral diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of NSAID therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of oral diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), PENNSAID should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue PENNSAID immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with PENNSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing PENNSAID with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, antiepileptics). 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including PENNSAID, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.5 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Avoid the use of PENNSAID in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If PENNSAID is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. 5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of PENNSAID in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of PENNSAID may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with preexisting renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating PENNSAID. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of PENNSAID [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Avoid the use of PENNSAID in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If PENNSAID is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4) ]. When PENNSAID is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of PENNSAID at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4) ]. Do not apply PENNSAID to open skin wounds, infections, inflammations, or exfoliative dermatitis, as it may affect absorption and tolerability of the drug. 5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Diclofenac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including PENNSAID, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. 5.11 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with PENNSAID has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including PENNSAID, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of PENNSAID in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.13 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and a chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.6) ]. 5.14 Sun Exposure Instruct patients to avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight on treated knee(s) because studies in animals indicated topical diclofenac treatment resulted in an earlier onset of ultraviolet light-induced skin tumors. The potential effects of PENNSAID on skin response to ultraviolet damage in humans are not known. 5.15 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of PENNSAID with eyes and mucosa. Advise patients that if eye contact occurs, immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour. 5.16 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with PENNSAID 1.5% resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage, more frequent abnormal creatinine, urea and hemoglobin. Therefore, do not use combination therapy with PENNSAID and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (5.3) - Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (5.4, 7) - Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure (5.5) - Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (5.6) - Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (5.7) - Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: VOLTAREN(R) GEL is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity) (5.8) - Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue VOLTAREN(R) GEL at first appearance of rash or other signs of hypersensitivity (5.9) - Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation. (5.10, 8.1) - Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia (5.11, 7) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4)]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If VOLTAREN(R) GEL is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: -Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. -Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. -Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. -Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. -If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue VOLTAREN(R) GEL until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. -In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions ( 7)]. 5.3 Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials, of oral diclofenac-containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2-6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3-8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.),VOLTAREN(R) GEL should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue VOLTAREN(R) GEL immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver related event in patients treated with VOLTAREN(R) GEL, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing VOLTAREN(R) GEL with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, anti-epileptics). 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including VOLTAREN(R) GEL, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions ( 7)]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.5 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug interactions ( 7)]. Avoid the use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If VOLTAREN(R) GEL is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. 5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of VOLTAREN(R) GEL may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with preexisting renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating VOLTAREN(R) GEL. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL [see Drug Interactions ( 7)]. Avoid the use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If VOLTAREN(R) GEL is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.7 Anaphylactoid Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications ( 4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, VOLTAREN(R) GEL is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4)]. When VOLTAREN(R) GEL is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. VOLTAREN(R) GEL is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications ( 4)]. 5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Diclofenac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including VOLTAREN(R) GEL, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1)]. 5.11 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with VOLTAREN(R) GEL has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including VOLTAREN(R) GEL, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders, concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions ( 7)]. 5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of VOLTAREN(R) GEL in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.13 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and a chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2, 5.3, 5.6)]. 5.14 Sun Exposure Patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight on treated areas because studies in animals indicated topical diclofenac treatment resulted in an earlier onset of ultraviolet light induced skin tumors. The potential effects of VOLTAREN(R) GEL on skin response to ultraviolet damage in humans are not known. 5.15 Eye Exposure Contact of VOLTAREN(R) GEL with eyes and mucosa, although not studied, should be avoided. Patients should be advised that if eye contact occurs, they should immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour. 5.16 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral and topical NSAIDs may result in a higher rate of hemorrhage, more frequent abnormal creatinine, urea and hemoglobin. Do not use combination therapy with VOLTAREN(R) GEL and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious and potentially fatal CV thrombotic events: Use lowest effective dose of CAMBIA for shortest possible duration (5.1) Serious and potentially fatal GI reactions: Use lowest effective dose of CAMBIA for shortest possible duration; use with caution in patients with prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding (5.2) Hepatic effects: Range from transaminase elevations to liver failure; discontinue CAMBIA immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen (5.3, 5.13) Hypertension: Can occur with NSAID treatment. Monitor blood pressure closely during treatment with CAMBIA (5.4) Congestive heart failure and edema: Fluid retention and edema can occur with NSAID treatment; use CAMBIA with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure (5.5) Renal effects: Long-term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury; use CAMBIA with caution in patients at risk (e.g., the elderly, those with renal impairment, heart failure, liver impairment, and those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors) (5.6) Anaphylactoid reactions: May occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to CAMBIA; discontinue CAMBIA immediately if an anaphylactoid reaction occurs (5.7) Serious skin reactions: Include exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal; discontinue CAMBIA if rash or other signs of local skin reaction occur (5.8) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years' duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID increases the risk of serious GI events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events such as inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, thus increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Prescribe NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, with extreme caution in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold risk for developing a GI bleed than patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during CAMBIA therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the CAMBIA until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternative therapies that do not include NSAIDs should be considered. 5.3 Hepatic Effects Elevations of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with CAMBIA. These laboratory abnormalities may progress, may persist, or may only be transient with continued therapy. Borderline elevations (less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ULN] range) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15% of diclofenac-treated patients. Of the markers of hepatic function, ALT (SGPT) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury. In clinical trials, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In an open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated for 2-6 months, patients were monitored at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of the 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (>8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In this open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3-8 times the ULN), and marked (>8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs.. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of NSAID therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. Measure transaminases (ALT and AST) periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), discontinue CAMBIA immediately. To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements, inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms), and the appropriate action patients should take if these signs and symptoms appear. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with CAMBIA, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing CAMBIA with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, certain antibiotics, antiepileptics). Caution patients to avoid taking nonprescription acetaminophen-containing products while using CAMBIA. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, can lead to new onset or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Use NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, with caution in patients with hypertension. Monitor blood pressure closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Patients taking ACE inhibitors, thiazides, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. 5.5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs. Use CAMBIA with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5. 6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with CAMBIA in patients with considerable dehydration. Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of CAMBIA in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with CAMBIA is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease. If CAMBIA therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. 5. 7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to CAMBIA. CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. 5. 8 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and to discontinue CAMBIA at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Pregnancy CAMBIA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Starting at 30 weeks gestation, CAMBIA and other NSAIDs should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur. If this drug is used during this time period in pregnancy, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [s ee Use in Special Populations ( 8.1 )]. 5.1 0 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of NSAIDs in reducing inflammation and possibly fever may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions. 5. 1 1 Hematologic Effects Anemia may occur in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. In patients on long-term therapy with NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, check hemoglobin or hematocrit if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, the NSAID effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible. Carefully monitor patients treated with CAMBIA who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants. 5. 1 2 Use in Patients With Pre-existing Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm which can be fatal. Since cross-reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in all patients with pre-existing asthma. 5. 1 3 Monitoring Because serious GI ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. For patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, periodically perform a CBC and chemistry profile. Discontinue CAMBIA if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen. 5.1 4 Phenylketonurics CAMBIA contains aspartame equivalent to phenylalanine 25 mg per packet."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious and potentially fatal CV thrombotic events: Use lowest effective dose of CAMBIA for shortest possible duration (5.1) Serious and potentially fatal GI reactions: Use lowest effective dose of CAMBIA for shortest possible duration; use with caution in patients with prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding (5.2) Hepatic effects: Range from transaminase elevations to liver failure; discontinue CAMBIA immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen (5.3, 5.13) Hypertension: Can occur with NSAID treatment. Monitor blood pressure closely during treatment with CAMBIA (5.4) Congestive heart failure and edema: Fluid retention and edema can occur with NSAID treatment; use CAMBIA with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure (5.5) Renal effects: Long-term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury; use CAMBIA with caution in patients at risk (e.g., the elderly, those with renal impairment, heart failure, liver impairment, and those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors) (5.6) Anaphylactoid reactions: May occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to CAMBIA; discontinue CAMBIA immediately if an anaphylactoid reaction occurs (5.7) Serious skin reactions: Include exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal; discontinue CAMBIA if rash or other signs of local skin reaction occur (5.8) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years' duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID increases the risk of serious GI events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events such as inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, thus increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Prescribe NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, with extreme caution in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold risk for developing a GI bleed than patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during CAMBIA therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the CAMBIA until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternative therapies that do not include NSAIDs should be considered. 5.3 Hepatic Effects Elevations of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with CAMBIA. These laboratory abnormalities may progress, may persist, or may only be transient with continued therapy. Borderline elevations (less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ULN] range) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15% of diclofenac-treated patients. Of the markers of hepatic function, ALT (SGPT) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury. In clinical trials, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In an open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated for 2-6 months, patients were monitored at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of the 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (>8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In this open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3-8 times the ULN), and marked (>8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of NSAID therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. Measure transaminases (ALT and AST) periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), discontinue CAMBIA immediately. To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements, inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu-like" symptoms), and the appropriate action patients should take if these signs and symptoms appear. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with CAMBIA, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing CAMBIA with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, certain antibiotics, antiepileptics). Caution patients to avoid taking nonprescription acetaminophen-containing products while using CAMBIA. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, can lead to new onset or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Use NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, with caution in patients with hypertension. Monitor blood pressure closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Patients taking ACE inhibitors, thiazides, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. 5.5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs. Use CAMBIA with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5.6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with CAMBIA in patients with considerable dehydration. Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of CAMBIA in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with CAMBIA is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease. If CAMBIA therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. 5.7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to CAMBIA. CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.8 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and to discontinue CAMBIA at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Pregnancy CAMBIA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Starting at 30 weeks gestation, CAMBIA and other NSAIDs should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur. If this drug is used during this time period in pregnancy, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Special Populations (8.1)]. 5.10 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of NSAIDs in reducing inflammation and possibly fever may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions. 5.11 Hematologic Effects Anemia may occur in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. In patients on long-term therapy with NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, check hemoglobin or hematocrit if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, the NSAID effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible. Carefully monitor patients treated with CAMBIA who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants. 5.12 Use in Patients With Pre-existing Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm which can be fatal. Since cross-reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, CAMBIA is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in all patients with pre-existing asthma. 5.13 Monitoring Because serious GI ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. For patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs, including CAMBIA, periodically perform a CBC and chemistry profile. Discontinue CAMBIA if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen. 5.14 Phenylketonurics CAMBIA contains aspartame equivalent to phenylalanine 25 mg per packet."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence > 2% from clinical trials) are: abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting, constipation, headache, dizziness, alanine aminotransferase increased, hematocrit decreased (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adverse reaction information for ARTHROTEC is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving ARTHROTEC 50 or ARTHROTEC 75, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of diclofenac delayed-release tablets and misoprostol tablets. Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving ARTHROTEC. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on ARTHROTEC and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, [see Clinical Studies (14)] . GI disorder ARTHROTEC Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% ARTHROTEC can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if ARTHROTEC is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering ARTHROTEC with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving ARTHROTEC (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of ARTHROTEC. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology [see Boxed Warnings, Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of ARTHROTEC in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally with ARTHROTEC, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: asthenia, fatigue, malaise. Central and peripheral nervous system: dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, paresthesia, vertigo. Digestive: anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, esophageal ulceration, oesophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI neoplasm benign, peptic ulcer, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: breast pain, dysmenorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: epistaxis, leukopenia, melena, purpura, decreased hematocrit. Metabolic and nutritional: alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, dehydration, hyponatremia. Musculoskeletal system: arthralgia, myalgia. Psychiatric: anxiety, concentration impaired, depression, irritability. Respiratory system: asthma, coughing, hyperventilation. Skin and appendages: alopecia,eczema, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, sweating increased, pruritus. Special senses: taste perversion, tinnitus. Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, nocturia, polyuria, proteinuria, urinary tract infection. Vision: diplopia. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified druing post approval of ARTHROTEC, diclofenac or misoprostol. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from apopulation of unceritan size, it is not always possible to reliable estimate their fequesncy or establish a causal relationsip to drug exposure. Body as a whole: death, fever, infection, sepsis, chills, edema. Cardiovascular system: arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: coma, convulsions, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, somnolence, stroke, tremor. Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: birth defects. Digestive: enteritis, GI bleeding, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis. Female reproductive disorders: intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, liver failure, pancreatitis, hepatitis, jaundice. Male reproductive disorders: impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: BUN increased, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions: abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: confusion, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Reproductive system and breast disorders: female fertility decreased. Respiratory system: dyspnea, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: acne, bruising, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: hearing impairment, taste loss. Renal and urinary disorders: cystitis, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria, papillary necrosis, renal failure, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion, glomerulohephritis. Vision: amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >2% of patients treated with VOLTAREN(R) GEL and greater than placebo) are application site reactions, including dermatitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical development, 913 patients were exposed to VOLTAREN(R) GEL in randomized, double-blind, multicenter, vehicle-controlled, parallel-group studies in osteoarthritis of the superficial joints of the extremities. Of these, 513 patients received VOLTAREN(R) GEL for osteoarthritis of the knee and 400 were treated for osteoarthritis of the hand. Additionally, 583 patients were exposed to VOLTAREN(R) GEL in an uncontrolled, open-label, long-term safety trial in osteoarthritis of the knee. Of these, 355 patients were treated for osteoarthritis of 1 knee and 228 were treated for osteoarthritis of both knees. Duration of exposure ranged from 8 to 12 weeks for the placebo-controlled studies, and up to 12 months for the open-label safety trial. Short-Term Placebo-Controlled Trials: Adverse reactions observed in at least 1% of patients treated with VOLTAREN(R) GEL: Non-serious adverse reactions that were reported during the short-term placebo-controlled studies comparing VOLTAREN(R) GEL and placebo (vehicle gel) over study periods of 8 to 12 weeks (16 g per day), were application site reactions. These were the only adverse reactions that occurred in >1% of treated patients with a greater frequency in the VOLTAREN(R) GEL group (7%) than the placebo group (2%). Table 1 lists the types of application site reactions reported. Application site dermatitis was the most frequent type of application site reaction and was reported by 4% of patients treated with VOLTAREN(R) GEL, compared to 1% of placebo patients. Table 1: Non-serious Application Site Adverse Reactions (>=1% VOLTAREN(R) GEL Patients) - Short-term Controlled Trials Adverse Reaction VOLTAREN(R) GEL N=913 Placebo (vehicle) N=876 N (%) N (%) Any application site reaction 62 (7) 19 (2) Application site dermatitis 32 (4) 6 (<1) Application site pruritus 7 (<1) 1 (<1) Application site erythema 6 (<1) 3 (<1) Application site paresthesia 5 (<1) 3 (<1) Application site dryness 4 (<1) 3 (<1) Application site vesicles 3 (<1) 0 Application site irritation 2 (<1) 0 Application site papules 1 (<1) 0  Preferred Term according to MedDRA 9.1. In the placebo-controlled trials, the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 5% for patients treated with VOLTAREN(R) GEL, and 3% for patients in the placebo group. Application site reactions, including application site dermatitis, were the most frequent reason for treatment discontinuation. Long-Term Open-Label Safety Trial: In the open-label, long-term safety study, distribution of adverse reactions was similar to that in the placebo-controlled studies. In this study, where patients were treated for up to 1 year with VOLTAREN(R) GEL up to 32 g per day, application site dermatitis was observed in 11% of patients. Adverse reactions that led to the discontinuation of the study drug were experienced in 12% of patients. The most common adverse reaction that led to discontinuation of the study was application site dermatitis, which was experienced by 6% of patients."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] -Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] -Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] -Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] -Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] -Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] The most common adverse reactions (>5%) in controlled clinical trials include nausea, constipation, headache, infusion site pain, dizziness, flatulence, vomiting, and insomnia. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical development, 1,156 patients were exposed to DYLOJECT in multiple-dose, controlled and open-label studies. DYLOJECT was administered post-surgically every 6 hours for up to 5 days. The incidence rates of adverse reactions listed in the following table are derived from multicenter, controlled clinical studies in post-operative patients comparing DYLOJECT to placebo in patients who may have also received morphine rescue medication. Table 1: Proportion of Patients Experiencing Common Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Studies in Patients with Acute Moderate-to-Severe Postoperative Pain occurring in greater than or equal to 3% in patients treated with DYLOJECT MedDRA Preferred Term Placebo Intravenous morphine was permitted as rescue medication for pain management. N=126 DYLOJECT N=187 Any Reaction 104 (83%) 146 (78%) Nausea Constipation Headache Infusion Site Pain Dizziness Flatulence Vomiting Insomnia Pruritus Hypotension Pyrexia Anemia Infusion Site Extravasation 50 (40%) 14 (11%) 20 (16%) 10 (8%) 2 (2%) 20 (16%) 23 (18%) 12 (10%) 10 (8%) 6 (5%) 13 (10%) 9 (7%) 1 (1%) 45 (24%) 25 (13%) 19 (10%) 19 (10%) 15 (8%) 15 (8%) 12 (6%) 11 (6%) 9 (5%) 9 (5%) 8 (4%) 8 (4%) 6 (3%) Adverse reactions of special interest Based on the analysis of the pooled data from the multi-dose, controlled clinical trials, post-operative patients treated with DYLOJECT had more adverse reactions related to wound healing (7.5%) compared to patients treated with placebo (4%). Adverse reactions from clinical studies or spontaneous reports for other formulations of diclofenac and other NSAIDs In patients taking diclofenac or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse reactions reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] The most common adverse reactions with PENNSAID are application site reactions. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Horizon Pharma USA Inc. at 1-866-479-6742 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to PENNSAID of 130 patients treated for 4 weeks (mean duration of 28 days) in one Phase 2 controlled trial. This population's mean age was approximately 60 years, 85% of patients were Caucasian, 65% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with PENNSAID were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the study. Application Site Reactions: In this controlled trial, application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness (22%), exfoliation (7%), erythema (4%), pruritus (2%), pain (2%), induration (2%), rash (2%), and scabbing (<1%). Other Common Adverse Reactions: Table 1 lists all adverse reactions occurring in >1% of patients receiving PENNSAID, where the rate in the PENNSAID group exceeded vehicle, from a controlled study conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Table 1: Incidence of Adverse Reactions Occurring in >1% of Subjects with Osteoarthritis Using PENNSAID and More Often than in Subjects with OA Using Vehicle Control (Pooled) Adverse Reaction PENNSAID N=130 n (%) Vehicle Control N=129 n (%) Urinary tract infection 4 (3%) 1 (<1%) Application site induration 2 (2%) 1 (<1%) Contusion 2 (2%) 1 (<1%) Sinus congestion 2 (2%) 1 (<1%) Nausea 2 (2%) 0 PENNSAID 1.5% The safety of PENNSAID 2% is based in part, on prior experience with PENNSAID 1.5%. The data described below reflect exposure to PENNSAID 1.5% of 911 patients treated between 4 and 12 weeks (mean duration of 49 days) in seven Phase 3 controlled trials, as well as exposure of 793 patients treated in an open-label study, including 463 patients treated for at least 6 months, and 144 patients treated for at least 12 months. The population mean age was approximately 60 years, 89% of patients were Caucasian, 64% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with PENNSAID 1.5% were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the studies. Application Site Reactions: In controlled trials, application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness, erythema, induration, vesicles, paresthesia, pruritus, vasodilation, acne, and urticaria. The most frequent of these reactions were dry skin (32%), contact dermatitis characterized by skin erythema and induration (9%), contact dermatitis with vesicles (2%) and pruritus (4%). In one controlled trial, a higher rate of contact dermatitis with vesicles (4%) was observed after treatment of 152 subjects with the combination of PENNSAID 1.5% and oral diclofenac. In the open-label uncontrolled long-term safety study, contact dermatitis occurred in 13% and contact dermatitis with vesicles in 10% of patients, generally within the first 6 months of exposure, leading to a withdrawal rate for an application site event of 14%. Other Common Adverse Reactions: In controlled trials, subjects treated with PENNSAID 1.5% experienced some adverse events associated with the NSAID class more frequently than subjects using placebo (constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, edema; see Table 2). The combination of PENNSAID 1.5% and oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%), and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%), but no difference in elevation of liver transaminases. Table 2 lists all adverse reactions occurring in >=1% of patients receiving PENNSAID 1.5%, where the rate in the PENNSAID 1.5% group exceeded placebo, from seven controlled studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Since these trials were of different durations, these percentages do not capture cumulative rates of occurrence. Table 2: Adverse Reactions Occurring in >=1% of Patients Treated with PENNSAID 1.5% Topical Solution in Placebo and Oral Diclofenac-Controlled Trials Treatment Group: PENNSAID 1.5% N=911 Topical Placebo N=332 Adverse Reaction N (%) N (%) Dry Skin (Application Site) 292 (32) 17 (5) Contact Dermatitis (Application Site) 83 (9) 6 (2) Dyspepsia 72 (8) 13 (4) Abdominal Pain 54 (6) 10 (3) Flatulence 35 (4) 1 (<1) Pruritus (Application Site) 34 (4) 7 (2) Diarrhea 33 (4) 7 (2) Nausea 33 (4) 3 (1) Pharyngitis 40 (4) 13 (4) Constipation 29 (3) 1 (<1) Edema 26 (3) 0 Rash (Non-Application Site) 25 (3) 5 (2) Infection 25 (3) 8 (2) Ecchymosis 19 (2) 1 (<1) Dry Skin (Non-Application Site) 19 (2) 1 (<1) Contact Dermatitis, vesicles (Application Site) 18 (2) 0 Paresthesia (Non-Application Site) 14 (2) 3 (<1) Accidental Injury 22 (2) 7 (2) Pruritus (Non-Application Site) 15 (2) 2 (<1) Sinusitis 10 (1) 2 (<1) Halitosis 11 (1) 1 (<1) Application Site Reaction (not otherwise specified) 11 (1) 3 (<1) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In postmarketing surveillance, the following adverse reactions have been reported during post- approval use of PENNSAID 1.5%. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reactions, asthenia, back pain, body odor, chest pain, edema, face edema, halitosis, headache, neck rigidity, pain Cardiovascular: palpitation, cardiovascular disorder Gastrointestinal: diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, decreased appetite, lip swelling, mouth ulceration, nausea, rectal hemorrhage, ulcerative stomatitis, swollen tongue Metabolic and Nutritional: creatinine increased Musculoskeletal: leg cramps, myalgia Nervous: depression, dizziness, drowsiness, lethargy, paresthesia at application site Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, laryngismus, laryngitis, pharyngitis, throat swelling Skin and Appendages: At the Application Site: rash, skin burning sensation; Other Skin and Appendages Adverse Reactions: eczema, skin discoloration, urticaria Special Senses: abnormal vision, blurred vision, cataract, ear pain, eye disorder, eye pain, taste perversion Vascular: blood pressure increased, hypertension"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: - Cardiovascular thrombotic events [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] - Gastrointestinal effects [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] - Hepatic effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] - Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] - Congestive Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] - Renal Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] - Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] - Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] The most common adverse reactions reported with CAMBIA are nausea and dizziness. The most common adverse events resulting in discontinuation of patients following CAMBIA dosing in controlled clinical trials were urticaria (0.2%) and flushing (0.2%). Most common adverse reactions (>=1% and >placebo) were nausea and dizziness (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Depomed, Inc. at 866-458-6389 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience With CAMBIA Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of a single dose of CAMBIA was evaluated in 2 placebo-controlled trials with a total of 634 migraine patients treated with CAMBIA for a single migraine headache. Following treatment with diclofenac potassium (either CAMBIA or diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets [as a control]), 5 subjects (0.8%) withdrew from the studies; following placebo exposure, 1 subject (0.2%) withdrew. No withdrawals were due to a serious reaction. The most common adverse reactions (i.e., that occurred in 1% or more of CAMBIA-treated patients) and more frequent with CAMBIA than with placebo were nausea and dizziness (see Table 1). Table 1: Treatment-Related Adverse Reactions With Incidence >1% and Greater Than Placebo in Studies 1 and 2 Combined Disorder CAMBIA Placebo Event N=634 N=646 Gastrointestinal Nausea 3% 2% Nervous System Dizziness 1% 0.5% 6.2 Adverse Reactions Reported With Diclofenac and Other NSAIDs In patients taking diclofenac or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: GI reactions (including abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers [gastric/duodenal], and vomiting), abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes, and tinnitus. Additional adverse reactions reported in patients taking NSAIDs include occasionally: Body as a Whole: Fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: Congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: Dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: Ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight changes Nervous System: Anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: Asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: Blurred vision Urogenital System: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions in patients taking NSAIDs, which occur rarely, are: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: Arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: Colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: Agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: Hyperglycemia Nervous System: Convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: Respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: Angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: Conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular thrombotic events [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Gastrointestinal effects [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Hepatic effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Congestive Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Renal Effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] The most common adverse reactions reported with CAMBIA are nausea and dizziness. The most common adverse events resulting in discontinuation of patients following CAMBIA dosing in controlled clinical trials were urticaria (0.2%) and flushing (0.2%). Most common adverse reactions (>=1% and >placebo) were nausea and dizziness (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Nautilus Neurosciences, Inc. at 877-874-2440 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience With CAMBIA Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of a single dose of CAMBIA was evaluated in 2 placebo-controlled trials with a total of 634 migraine patients treated with CAMBIA for a single migraine headache. Following treatment with diclofenac potassium (either CAMBIA or diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets [as a control]), 5 subjects (0.8%) withdrew from the studies; following placebo exposure, 1 subject (0.2%) withdrew. No withdrawals were due to a serious reaction. The most common adverse reactions (i.e., that occurred in 1% or more of CAMBIA-treated patients) and more frequent with CAMBIA than with placebo were nausea and dizziness (see Table 1). Table 1: Treatment-Related Adverse Reactions With Incidence >1% and Greater Than Placebo in Studies 1 and 2 Combined Disorder Event CAMBIA N=634 Placebo N=646 Gastrointestinal Nausea 3% 2% Nervous System Dizziness 1% 0.5% 6.2 Adverse Reactions Reported With Diclofenac and Other NSAIDs In patients taking diclofenac or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: GI reactions (including abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers [gastric/duodenal], and vomiting), abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes, and tinnitus. Additional adverse reactions reported in patients taking NSAIDs include occasionally: Body as a Whole: Fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: Congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: Dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: Ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight changes Nervous System: Anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: Asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: Blurred vision Urogenital System: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions in patients taking NSAIDs, which occur rarely , are: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: Arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: Colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: Agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: Hyperglycemia Nervous System: Convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: Respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: Angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: Conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aspirin: Concomitant administration with other NSAIDs, including aspirin, is not recommended because of an increased risk of adverse reactions, including GI bleeding (7.1) Anticoagulants: Concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) increases the risk of serious GI bleeding (7.2) 7.1 Aspirin When administered with aspirin, diclofenac potassium's protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of CAMBIA and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than that with use of either drug alone. 7. 3 ACE Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking CAMBIA concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. 7. 4 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that diclofenac potassium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, observe patients closely for signs of renal failure as well as to assure diuretic efficacy [see Warnings and Preca utions ( 5.6 )]. 7. 5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced elevations of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. When CAMBIA and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7. 6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This indicates that NSAIDs may enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7. 7 Cyclosporine CAMBIA, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with CAMBIA may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when CAMBIA is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.8 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 2C9 Diclofenac is metabolized predominantly by Cytochrome P-450 CYP2C9. Co-administration of medications that inhibit CYP2C9 may affect the pharmacokinetics of diclofenac [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aspirin: Concomitant administration with other NSAIDs, including aspirin, is not recommended because of an increased risk of adverse reactions, including GI bleeding (7.1) Anticoagulants: Concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) increases the risk of serious GI bleeding (7.2) 7.1 Aspirin When administered with aspirin, diclofenac potassium's protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of CAMBIA and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than that with use of either drug alone. 7.3 ACE Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking CAMBIA concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. 7.4 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that diclofenac potassium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, observe patients closely for signs of renal failure as well as to assure diuretic efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced elevations of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. When CAMBIA and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This indicates that NSAIDs may enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.7 Cyclosporine CAMBIA, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with CAMBIA may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when CAMBIA is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.8 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 2C9 Diclofenac is metabolized predominantly by Cytochrome P-450 CYP2C9. Co-administration of medications that inhibit CYP2C9 may affect the pharmacokinetics of diclofenac [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 1 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac/misoprostol. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac/Misoprostol Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of ARTHROTEC with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. ARTHROTEC is not a substitute for low dose asprin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: The concomitant administration of these drugs should be done with caution. Patients should be adequately hydrated and the clinical need to monitor the renal function should be assessed at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Intervention: The concomitant use of ARTHROTEC with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Antacids Clinical Impact: Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Intervention: Concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and magnesium-containing antacids is not recommended. Corticosteroids Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of corticosteroids with diclofenac may increase the risk of GI ulceration or bleeding. Intervention Monitor patients with concomitant use of ARTHROTEC with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers Clinical Impact: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconzaole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Intervention: CYP 2C9 inhibitors: When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of ARTHROTEC 50 twice daily [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. CYP2C9 inducers: A dosage adjustment may be warranted when ARTHROTEC is administered with CYP2C9 inducers. Administer the separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concominantly taking ARTHROTEC with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of ARTHROTEC and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with ARTHROTEC may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with ARTHROTEC in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) Digoxin: Concomitant use with ARTHROTEC can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: -Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. -Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of DYLOJECT with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. DYLOJECT is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: -NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). -In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: -During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. -During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. -When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Inhibitors or Inducers of Cytochrome P450 2C9 Clinical Impact: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Intervention: Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers, a dosage adjustment may be warranted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. - Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking DYLOJECT with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) - ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with DYLOJECT may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) - ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with DYLOJECT in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) - Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) - Digoxin: Concomitant use with DYLOJECT can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: - Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. - Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. VOLTAREN(R) GEL is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: - NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). - In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: - During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta- blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. - During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. -When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and Gl toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. - Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly using VOLTAREN(R) GEL with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of VOLTAREN(R) GEL and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) - ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with VOLTAREN(R) GEL may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) - ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with VOLTAREN(R) GEL in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) - Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) - Digoxin: Concomitant use with VOLTAREN(R) GEL can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have increased the risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of PENNSAID with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Intervention: Concomitant use of PENNSAID and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. PENNSAID is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of PENNSAID and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of PENNSAID and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of PENNSAID with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of PENNSAID and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of PENNSAID and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction) Intervention: During concomitant use of PENNSAID and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of PENNSAID and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of PENNSAID and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with PENNSAID has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Do not use combination therapy with PENNSAID and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of PENNSAID and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of PENNSAID and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly using PENNSAID with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of PENNSAID and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB) or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with PENNSAID may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with PENNSAID in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) Digoxin: Concomitant use with PENNSAID can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with ARTHROTEC Adverse reaction information for ARTHROTEC is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving ARTHROTEC 50 or ARTHROTEC 75, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec tablets (misoprostol). (R) (R) Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving ARTHROTEC. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on ARTHROTEC and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see . CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety GI disorder ARTHROTEC Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% ARTHROTEC can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if ARTHROTEC is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering ARTHROTEC with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving ARTHROTEC (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of ARTHROTEC. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed ). CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of ARTHROTEC in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with ARTHROTEC, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema. Body as a whole: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Cardiovascular system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Central and peripheral nervous system: birth defects Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Digestive: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Female reproductive disorders: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hemic and lymphatic system: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Hypersensitivity: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Liver and biliary system: Impotence, perineal pain. Male reproductive disorders: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Metabolic and nutritional: Arthralgia, myalgia. Musculoskeletal system: : abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Psychiatric: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Respiratory system: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Skin and appendages: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Special senses: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Urinary system: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal. Vision:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with ARTHROTEC Adverse reaction information for ARTHROTEC is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving ARTHROTEC 50 or ARTHROTEC 75, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving ARTHROTEC. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on ARTHROTEC and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder ARTHROTEC Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% ARTHROTEC can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if ARTHROTEC is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering ARTHROTEC with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving ARTHROTEC (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of ARTHROTEC. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of ARTHROTEC in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with ARTHROTEC, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with ARTHROTEC Adverse reaction information for ARTHROTEC is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving ARTHROTEC 50 or ARTHROTEC 75, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving ARTHROTEC. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on ARTHROTEC and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder ARTHROTEC Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% ARTHROTEC can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if ARTHROTEC is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering ARTHROTEC with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving ARTHROTEC (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of ARTHROTEC. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of ARTHROTEC in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with ARTHROTEC, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, tremor, vertigo. Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alkaline phosphatase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with ARTHROTEC Adverse reaction information for ARTHROTEC is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients, receiving ARTHROTEC 50 or ARTHROTEC 75, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release Tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) Tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving ARTHROTEC. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on ARTHROTEC and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder ARTHROTEC Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% ARTHROTEC can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if ARTHROTEC is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering ARTHROTEC with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving ARTHROTEC (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of ARTHROTEC. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of ARTHROTEC in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with ARTHROTEC, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, tremor, vertigo. Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alkaline phosphatase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients, receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, 50/0.2 mg or diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets 75/0.2 mg , as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release Tablets(diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) Tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES \\342\\200\\224 Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren (R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec (R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES \\342\\200\\224 Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: birth defects Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions : abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES \\342\\200\\224 Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: birth defects Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions : abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: birth defects Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions : abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren (R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec (R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224 Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: birth defects Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions: abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: birth defects Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions: abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES \\342\\200\\224 Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac Sodium and Misoprostol Delayed-Release Tablets Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions: abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993; email drugsafety@avkare.com ; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with diclofenac sodium/misoprostol Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium/misoprostol 50 or diclofenac sodium/misoprostol 75, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety . GI disorder Diclofenac sodium/misoprostol Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets are prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS ). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills, edema. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: birth defects Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, uterine cramping, uterine hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased hematocrit. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes, fluid retention. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions: abnormal uterine contractions, uterine rupture/perforation, retained placenta, amniotic fluid embolism, incomplete abortion, premature birth, fetal death. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis, cutaneous reactions (bullous eruption). Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Adverse reactions associated with diclofenac sodium/misoprostol Adverse reaction information for diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets is derived from Phase III multinational controlled clinical trials in over 2,000 patients receiving diclofenac sodium/misoprostol 50 or diclofenac sodium/misoprostol 75, as well as from blinded, controlled trials of Voltaren(R) Delayed-Release tablets (diclofenac) and Cytotec(R) tablets (misoprostol). Gastrointestinal GI disorders had the highest reported incidence of adverse events for patients receiving diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets. These events were generally minor, but led to discontinuation of therapy in 9% of patients on diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets and 5% of patients on diclofenac. For GI ulcer rates, see CLINICAL STUDIES\\342\\200\\224Upper gastrointestinal safety. GI disorder Diclofenac sodium/misoprostol Diclofenac Abdominal pain 21% 15% Diarrhea 19% 11% Dyspepsia 14% 11% Nausea 11% 6% Flatulence 9% 4% Diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets can cause more abdominal pain, diarrhea, and other GI symptoms than diclofenac alone. Diarrhea and abdominal pain developed early in the course of therapy, and were usually self-limited (resolved after 2 to 7 days). Rare instances of profound diarrhea leading to severe dehydration have been reported in patients receiving misoprostol. Patients with an underlying condition such as inflammatory bowel disease, or those in whom dehydration, were it to occur, would be dangerous, should be monitored carefully if diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets are prescribed. The incidence of diarrhea can be minimized by administering diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets with food and by avoiding coadministration with magnesium-containing antacids. Gynecological Gynecological disorders previously reported with misoprostol use have also been reported for women receiving diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets (see below). Postmenopausal vaginal bleeding may be related to administration of diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets. If it occurs, diagnostic workup should be undertaken to rule out gynecological pathology (see boxed CONTRAINDICATIONS AND WARNINGS). Elderly Overall, there were no significant differences in the safety profile of diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets in over 500 patients 65 years of age or older compared with younger patients. Other adverse experiences reported occasionally or rarely with diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets, diclofenac or other NSAIDs, or misoprostol are: Body as a whole: Asthenia, death, fatigue, fever, infection, malaise, sepsis, chills. Cardiovascular system: Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, hypertension, hypotension, increased CPK, increased LDH, myocardial infarction, palpitations, phlebitis, premature ventricular contractions, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and peripheral nervous system: Coma, convulsions, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, hyperesthesia, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, insomnia, meningitis, migraine, neuralgia, paresthesia, somnolence, stroke, tremor, vertigo. Digestive: Anorexia, appetite changes, constipation, dry mouth, dysphagia, enteritis, esophageal ulceration, esophagitis, eructation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, GI bleeding, GI neoplasm benign, glossitis, heartburn, hematemesis, hemorrhoids, intestinal perforation, peptic ulcer, stomatitis and ulcerative stomatitis, tenesmus, vomiting. Female reproductive disorders: Breast pain, dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, menorrhagia, vaginal hemorrhage. Hemic and lymphatic system: Agranulocytosis, anemia, aplastic anemia, coagulation time increased, ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, hemolytic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, melena, pancytopenia, pulmonary embolism, purpura, rectal bleeding, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, laryngeal/pharyngeal edema, urticaria. Liver and biliary system: Abnormal hepatic function, bilirubinemia, hepatitis, jaundice, liver failure, pancreatitis. Male reproductive disorders: Impotence, perineal pain. Metabolic and nutritional: Alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, BUN increased, dehydration, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, periorbital edema, porphyria, weight changes. Musculoskeletal system: Arthralgia, myalgia. Psychiatric: Anxiety, concentration impaired, confusion, depression, disorientation, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, irritability, nervousness, paranoia, psychotic reaction. Respiratory system: Asthma, coughing, dyspnea, hyperventilation, pneumonia, respiratory depression. Skin and appendages: Acne, alopecia, bruising, eczema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, pemphigoid reaction, photosensitivity, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Special senses: Hearing impairment, taste loss, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urinary system: Cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, micturition frequency, nocturia, nephrotic syndrome, oliguria/polyuria, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary tract infection, glomerulonephritis membranous, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion. Vision: Amblyopia, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, glaucoma, iritis, lacrimation abnormal, night blindness, vision abnormal."$$
"Drug interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ARTHROTEC is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free ARTHROTEC is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and ARTHROTEC should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine ARTHROTEC, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of ARTHROTEC may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking ARTHROTEC or who increase their dose of ARTHROTEC while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for clyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that ARTHROTEC be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ARTHROTEC can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. Other drugs In small groups of patients (7-10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro, diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ARTHROTEC is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free ARTHROTEC is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and ARTHROTEC should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine ARTHROTEC, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of ARTHROTEC may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking ARTHROTEC or who increase their dose of ARTHROTEC while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that ARTHROTEC be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that ARTHROTEC can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. Voriconazole In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8- fold respectively when co-administered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. Other drugs In small groups of patients (7-10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro, diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Aspirin When ARTHROTEC is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free ARTHROTEC is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and ARTHROTEC should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine ARTHROTEC, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of ARTHROTEC may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking ARTHROTEC or who increase their dose of ARTHROTEC while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that ARTHROTEC be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that ARTHROTEC can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. Voriconazole In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. Other drugs In small groups of patients (7-10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro, diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Aspirin : When diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin : Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics : Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids : Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics : Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets 50/0.2 mg twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Voriconazole: In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean C max and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8- fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. CYP2C9 inducers Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other drugs : In small groups of patients (7 to10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro , diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro , on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Aspirin : When diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin : Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics : Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids : Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics : Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets 50/0.2 mg twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Voriconazole: In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8- fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. CYP2C9 inducers Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other drugs : In small groups of patients (7 to10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro, diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Aspirin : When diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin : Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics : Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids : Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics : Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors : Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, 50 mg/0.2 mg twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Voriconazole: In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. CYP2C9 inducers : Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other drugs : In small groups of patients (7 to 10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro , diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro , on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Aspirin When ARTHROTEC is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free ARTHROTEC is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and ARTHROTEC should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Tacrolimus Possible increased risk of nephrotoxicity when NSAIDs are given with tacrolimus. Cyclosporine ARTHROTEC, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of ARTHROTEC may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking ARTHROTEC or who increase their dose of ARTHROTEC while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that ARTHROTEC be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that ARTHROTEC can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. WARNINGS, Renal Effects CYP2C9 inhibitors Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of ARTHROTEC 50 twice daily (see ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Voriconazole In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean C and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. max CYP2C9 inducers Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Other drugs In small groups of patients (7-10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum. In vitro, in vitro,"$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible Aspirin: When diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin: Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics: Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Tacrolimus: Possible increased risk of nephrotoxicity when NSAIDs are given with tacrolimus. Cyclosporine: Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids: Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors : Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, 50 mg/0.2 mg twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Voriconazole: In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. CYP2C9 inducers Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other drugs: In small groups of patients (7 to 10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro, diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Aspirin : When diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin : Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics : Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Tacrolimus: Possible increased risk of nephrotoxicity when NSAIDs are given with tacrolimus. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids : Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics : Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, 50 mg/0.2 mg twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Voriconazole: In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. CYP2C9 inducers Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other drugs : In small groups of patients (7 to 10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro , diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro , on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Aspirin: When diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin: Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics: Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Tacrolimus: Possible increased risk of nephrotoxicity when NSAIDs are given with tacrolimus. Cyclosporine: Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids: Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, 50 mg/0.2 mg twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Voriconazole: In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. CYP2C9 inducers Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other drugs: In small groups of patients (7 to 10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro, diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Aspirin : When diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin : Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics : Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Tacrolimus: Possible increased risk of nephrotoxicity when NSAIDs are given with tacrolimus. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids : Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics : Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of diclofenac sodium and misoprostol delayed-release tablets, 50 mg/0.2 mg twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Voriconazole: In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. Other drugs : In small groups of patients (7 to 10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro , diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro , on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Aspirin When diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of diclofenac is reduced, although the clearance of the free diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablet is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential risk of increased adverse effects. Digoxin Elevated digoxin levels have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium. Patients receiving digoxin and diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets should be monitored for possible digoxin toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious bleeding greater than users of either drug alone. Oral hypoglycemics Diclofenac sodium does not alter glucose metabolism in healthy people nor does it alter the effects of oral hypoglycemic agents. There are rare reports, however, from marketing experience, of changes in effects of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in the presence of diclofenac sodium that necessitated change in the doses of such agents. Both hypo- and hyperglycemic effects have been reported. A direct causal relationship has not been established, but physicians should consider the possibility that diclofenac sodium may alter a diabetic patient's response to insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Tacrolimus Possible increased risk of nephrotoxicity when NSAIDs are given with tacrolimus. Cyclosporine Diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets, like other NSAID containing products, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Ingestion of diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets may increase cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Patients who begin taking diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets or who increase their dose of diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets while taking cyclosporine may develop toxicity characteristic for cyclosporine. They should be observed closely, particularly if renal function is impaired. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Antacids Antacids reduce the bioavailability of misoprostol acid. Antacids may also delay absorption of diclofenac sodium. Magnesium-containing antacids exacerbate misoprostol-associated diarrhea. Thus, it is not recommended that diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets be coadministered with magnesium-containing antacids. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium/misoprostol tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Concomitant therapy with potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. CYP2C9 inhibitors Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors may enhance toxicity of diclofenac due to an increase in systemic exposure to diclofenac. When concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors is necessary, the total daily dose of diclofenac should not exceed the lowest recommended dose of Diclofenac sodium/misoprostol 50 twice daily (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Voriconazole In a published study, single dose diclofenac (50 mg) was coadministered with the last dose of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours on Day 1, followed by 200 mg every 12 hours on Day 2). The mean Cmax and AUC of diclofenac were increased by 2.1-fold and 1.8-fold respectively when coadministered with voriconazole compared to diclofenac alone. CYP2C9 inducers Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin). Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers may lead to compromised efficacy due to a decrease in systemic exposure to diclofenac. The separate products of misoprostol and diclofenac should be used if a higher dose of diclofenac is deemed necessary (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other drugs In small groups of patients (7-10 patients/interaction study), the concomitant administration of azathioprine, gold, chloroquine, D-penicillamine, prednisolone, doxycycline, or digitoxin did not significantly affect the peak levels and AUC levels of diclofenac sodium. Phenobarbital toxicity has been reported to have occurred in a patient on chronic phenobarbital treatment following the initiation of diclofenac therapy. In vitro, diclofenac interferes minimally with the protein binding of prednisolone (10% decrease in binding). Benzylpenicillin, ampicillin, oxacillin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline, cephalothin, erythromycin, and sulfamethoxazole have no influence, in vitro, on the protein binding of diclofenac in human serum."$$
