"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (5.3) - Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (5.4, 7) - Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of DYLOJECT in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure (5.5) - Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of DYLOJECT in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (5.6) - Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (5.7) - Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: DYLOJECT is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity) (5.8) - Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue DYLOJECT at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity. (5.9) - Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation (5.10, 8.1) - Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia (5.11, 7) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4) ]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of DYLOJECT in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If DYLOJECT is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. DYLOJECT is administered by intravenous injection and is intended for acute short term use. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated Patients: -Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. -Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. -Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. -Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. oIf a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment and discontinue DYLOJECT until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. oIn the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.3 Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of oral diclofenac-containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2-6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3-8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female sex, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. DYLOJECT is not indicated for long-term treatment. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g. eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), DYLOJECT should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue DYLOJECT immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with diclofenac, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing DYLOJECT with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, anti-epileptics). 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including DYLOJECT, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.5 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Avoid the use of DYLOJECT in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If DYLOJECT is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. 5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. DYLOJECT is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency and is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency in the perioperative period and who are at risk for volume depletion. Acute renal decompensation was observed in 4% out of 68 patients enrolled with renal impairment and treated with DYLOJECT in clinical trials in the perioperative period. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating DYLOJECT. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of DYLOJECT [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Avoid the use of DYLOJECT in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If DYLOJECT is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, DYLOJECT is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4) ]. When DYLOJECT is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of DYLOJECT at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. DYLOJECT is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4) ]. 5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Diclofenac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including DYLOJECT, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. 5.11 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with DYLOJECT has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including DYLOJECT, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders, concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of DYLOJECT in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.13 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.6)]. DYLOJECT is not indicated for long-term treatment.",$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke can occur with NSAID treatment. Use the lowest effective dose of diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. (5.1) NSAIDs can cause gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation. Prescribe diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. (5.2) Elevation of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with NSAIDs. Discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen. (5.3) Hypertension can occur with NSAID treatment. Monitor blood pressure closely with diclofenac sodium topical solution treatment. (5.4) Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. (5.5) Long-term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients at greatest risk of this reaction, including the elderly, those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, and those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors. (5.6) Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution. (5.7) NSAIDs can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. (5.8) Not for use during pregnancy. (5.9) Do not administer to patients with aspirin sensitive asthma and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma. (5.10) Avoid exposure of treated knee(s) to natural or artificial sunlight. (5.11) Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucosa. (5.12) Avoid concurrent use with oral NSAIDs. (5.13) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several oral COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution and COX-2 selective and nonselective orally administered NSAIDs, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Inform patients about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. Two large, controlled, clinical trials of an orally administered COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4)]. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and NSAIDS, such as diclofenac, does increase the risk of serious GI events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] 5.2 Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of GI Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Prescribe NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, use special care when treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during diclofenac therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. For high-risk patients, consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs. 5.3 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations (less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ULN] range) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15% of oral diclofenac-treated patients in clinical trials of indications other than acute pain. Of the markers of hepatic function, ALT (SGPT) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury. In clinical trials of an oral diclofenac - misoprostol combination product, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In an open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated for 2 to 6 months, patients with oral diclofenac were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of the 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (>8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In this open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3 to 8 times the ULN), and marked (>8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal test occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with oral diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In post marketing reports, cases of drug- induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of NSAID therapy. Post marketing surveillance has reported cases of sever hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of oral diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Measure transaminases (ALT and AST) periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and post marketing experiences, monitor transaminases within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g. eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution immediately. To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements, inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flulike\\\\" symptoms), and the appropriate action to take if these signs and symptoms appear. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing diclofenac sodium topical solution with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, certain antibiotics, antiepileptics). Caution patients to avoid taking unprescribed acetaminophen while using diclofenac sodium topical solution. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can lead to new onset or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Use NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, with caution in patients with hypertension. Monitor blood pressure (BP) closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Patients taking ACE-inhibitors, thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. 5.5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution. Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5.6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with considerable dehydration. Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose- dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with diclofenac sodium topical solution is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease. If diclofenac sodium topical solution therapy is initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. 5.7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution. Do not prescribe diclofenac sodium topical solution to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Seek emergency help in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. 5.8 Skin Reactions Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to open skin wounds, infections, inflammations, or exfoliative dermatitis, as it may affect absorption and tolerability of the drug. NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations, and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other signs of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Pregnancy Diclofenac sodium topical solution should not be used by pregnant or nursing women or those intending to become pregnant. 5.10 Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin- sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross- reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, do not administer diclofenac sodium topical solution to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma. 5.11 Sun Exposure Instruct patients to avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight on treated knee(s) because studies in animals indicated topical diclofenac treatment resulted in an earlier onset of ultraviolet light-induced skin tumors. The potential effects of diclofenac sodium topical solution on skin response to ultraviolet damage in humans are not known. 5.12 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucosa. Advise patients that if eye contact occurs, immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour. 5.13 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage, more frequent abnormal creatinine, urea and hemoglobin. Therefore, do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. 5.14 Corticosteroid Treatment Diclofenac sodium topical solution cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency. Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to exacerbation of corticosteroid-response illness. For patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy, taper slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids. 5.15 Inflammation The pharmacological activity of diclofenac sodium topical solution in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions. Hematological Effects The effects of diclofenac sodium topical solution on platelet function were studied in 10 healthy subjects administered 80 drops four times a day for 7 days. There was no significant change in platelet aggregation following one week of treatment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. Check hemoglobin or hematocrit of patients on diclofenac sodium topical solution if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration and reversible. Carefully monitor patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution who may be adversely affected by alteration in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants. 5.16 Monitoring Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms in patients taking NSAIDs, monitor patients for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. Check CBC and a chemistry profile periodically in patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs. Discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] -Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] -Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] -Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] -Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] -Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] The most common adverse reactions (>5%) in controlled clinical trials include nausea, constipation, headache, infusion site pain, dizziness, flatulence, vomiting, and insomnia. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical development, 1,156 patients were exposed to DYLOJECT in multiple-dose, controlled and open-label studies. DYLOJECT was administered post-surgically every 6 hours for up to 5 days. The incidence rates of adverse reactions listed in the following table are derived from multicenter, controlled clinical studies in post-operative patients comparing DYLOJECT to placebo in patients who may have also received morphine rescue medication. Table 1: Proportion of Patients Experiencing Common Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Studies in Patients with Acute Moderate-to-Severe Postoperative Pain occurring in greater than or equal to 3% in patients treated with DYLOJECT MedDRA Preferred Term Placebo Intravenous morphine was permitted as rescue medication for pain management. N=126 DYLOJECT N=187 Any Reaction 104 (83%) 146 (78%) Nausea Constipation Headache Infusion Site Pain Dizziness Flatulence Vomiting Insomnia Pruritus Hypotension Pyrexia Anemia Infusion Site Extravasation 50 (40%) 14 (11%) 20 (16%) 10 (8%) 2 (2%) 20 (16%) 23 (18%) 12 (10%) 10 (8%) 6 (5%) 13 (10%) 9 (7%) 1 (1%) 45 (24%) 25 (13%) 19 (10%) 19 (10%) 15 (8%) 15 (8%) 12 (6%) 11 (6%) 9 (5%) 9 (5%) 8 (4%) 8 (4%) 6 (3%) Adverse reactions of special interest Based on the analysis of the pooled data from the multi-dose, controlled clinical trials, post-operative patients treated with DYLOJECT had more adverse reactions related to wound healing (7.5%) compared to patients treated with placebo (4%). Adverse reactions from clinical studies or spontaneous reports for other formulations of diclofenac and other NSAIDs In patients taking diclofenac or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse reactions occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse reactions reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution are application site reactions. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact IGI Laboratories, Inc. at 1-856 -697-1441, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of another drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution of 911 patients treated between 4 and 12 weeks (mean duration of 49 days) in seven Phase 3 controlled trials, as well as exposure of 793 patients treated in an open-label study, including 463 patients treated for at least 6 months, and 144 patients treated for at least 12 months. The population mean age was approximately 60 years, 89% of patients were Caucasians, 64% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the studies. Application site reactions: In controlled trials, the most common treatment related adverse events in patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. Application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness, erythema, induration, vesicles, paresthesia, pruritus, vasodilation, acne, and urticaria. The most frequent of these reactions were dry skin (32%), contact dermatitis characterized by skin erythema and induration (9%), contact dermatitis with vescicles (2%) and pruritus (4%). In one controlled trial, a higher rate of contact dermatitis with vesicles (4%) was observed after treatment of 152 subjects with the combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac. In the open label uncontrolled long-term safety study, contact dermatitis occurred in 13% and contact dermatitis with vesicles in 10% of patients, generally within the first 6 months of exposure, leading to a withdrawal rate for an application site event of 14%. Adverse events common to the NSAID class: In controlled trials, subjects treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution experienced some adverse events associated with the NSAID class more frequently than subjects using placebo (constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, edema; see Table 1). The combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%), and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%), but no difference in elevation of liver transaminases. Table 1: lists all adverse reactions occurring in >=1% of patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution, where the rate in the diclofenac sodium topical solution group exceeded placebo, from seven controlled studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Since these trials were of different durations, these percentages do not capture cumulative rates of occurrence. Table 1: Adverse Reactions occurring in >=1% of patients treated with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution in placebo and oral diclofenac-controlled trials . Treatment Group: Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution N=911 Topical Placebo N= 332 Adverse ReactionPreferred Term according to COSTART N(%) N(%) Dry Skin (Application Site) 292 (32) 17 (5) Contact Dermatitis (Application Site) 83 (9) 6 (2) Dyspepsia 72 (8) 13 (4) Abdominal Pain 54 (6) 10 (3) Flatulence 35 (4) 1 (<1) Pruritus (Application Site) 34 (4) 7 (2) Diarrhea 33 (4) 7 (2) Nausea 33 (4) 3 (1) Pharyngitis 40 (4) 13 (4) Constipation 29 (3) 1 (<1) Edema 26 (3) 0 Rash (Non-Application Site) 25 (3) 5 (2) Infection 25 (3) 8 (2) Ecchymosis 19 (2) 1 (<1) Dry Skin (Non-Application Site) 19 (2) 1 (<1) Contact Dermatitis, vesicles (Application Site) 18 (2) 0 Paresthesia (Non-Application Site) 14 (2) 3 (<1) Accidental Injury 22 (2) 7 (2) Pruritus (Non-Application Site) 15 (2) 2 (<1) Sinusitis 10 (1) 2 (<1) Halitosis 11 (1) 1 (<1) Application Site Reaction (not otherwise specified) 11 (1) 3 (<1) 6.2 Post marketing Experience In non - U.S. post marketing surveillance, the following adverse reactions have been reported during post-approval use of diclofenac sodium topical solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, body odor, chest pain, edema, face edema, halitosis, headache, lack of drug effect, neck rigidity, pain Cardiovascular: palpitation, cardiovascular disorder Digestive: diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, decreased appetite, mouth ulceration, nausea, rectal hemorrhage, ulcerative stomatitis Metabolic and Nutritional: creatinine increased Musculoskeletal: leg cramps, myalgia Nervous: depression, dizziness, drowsiness, lethargy, paresthesia, paresthesia at application site Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, laryngismus, laryngitis, pharyngitis Skin and Appendages: At the Application Site: contact dermatitis, contact dermatitis with vesicles, dry skin, pruritus, rash; Other Skin and Appendages Adverse Reactions: eczema, rash, pruritus, skin discoloration, urticaria Special senses: abnormal vision, blurred vision, cataract, ear pain, eye disorder, eye pain, taste perversion"$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactions with the use of diclofenac sodium topical solution have not been studied. The following drug interactions [sections 7.1 to 7.7] are noted for oral diclofenac sodium. Concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects including increased GAI bleeding. (7.1) Concomitant use of anticoagulants and diclofenac have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. (7.2) 7.1 Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, the binding of diclofenac to protein is reduced, although the clearance of free diclofenac is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. 7.3 ACE-Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Consider this interaction in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.4 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. The response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. 7.5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.7 Cyclosporine Diclofenac, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.8 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Therefore, do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. 7.9 Topical Treatments Instruct patients that before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same skin surface of the knee treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution, they must wait until the treated area is completely dry."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: -Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. -Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of DYLOJECT with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. DYLOJECT is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: -NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). -In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: -During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. -During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. -When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of DYLOJECT and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Inhibitors or Inducers of Cytochrome P450 2C9 Clinical Impact: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Intervention: Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers, a dosage adjustment may be warranted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. - Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking DYLOJECT with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of DYLOJECT and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) - ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with DYLOJECT may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) - ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with DYLOJECT in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) - Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) - Digoxin: Concomitant use with DYLOJECT can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS:",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Practice: The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The events, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, epithelial breakdown, and superficial punctate keratitis, (see PRECAUTIONS, General). Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 5% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, injection, iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Clinical Practice: The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The events which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic Solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, epithelial breakdown, and superficial punctate keratitis (see Precautions, General). Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 5% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, injection, iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Practice: The following events have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The events, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, epithelial breakdown, and superficial punctate keratitis, (see PRECAUTIONS, General ). Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 5% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, atulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular: Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 10% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, eye pain, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder and ocular allergy. Systemic: The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting. Clinical Practice: The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical Diclofenac Sodium Ophthalmic Solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration, and epithelial breakdown (see PRECAUTIONS, General)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients using Diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 10% or less of the patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, eye pain, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder, and ocular allergy. Systemic The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of the patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection and vomiting. Clinical Practice The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration and epithelilal breakdown (see PRECAUTIONS, General). TO REPORT SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Altaire Pharmaceuticals, Inc., at 1-800-258-2471 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Ocular Transient burning and stinging were reported in approximately 15% of patients across studies with the use of Voltaren Ophthalmic. In cataract surgery studies, keratitis was reported in up to 28% of patients receiving Voltaren Ophthalmic, although in many of these cases keratitis was initially noted prior to the initiation of treatment. Elevated intraocular pressure following cataract surgery was reported in approximately 15% of patients undergoing cataract surgery. Lacrimation complaints were reported in approximately 30% of case studies undergoing incisional refractive surgery. The following adverse reactions were reported in approximately 10% or less of patients: abnormal vision, acute elevated IOP, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, corneal lesions, discharge, eyelid swelling, eye pain, injection (redness), iritis, irritation, itching, lacrimation disorder, and ocular allergy. Systemic The following adverse reactions were reported in 3% or less of patients: abdominal pain, asthenia, chills, dizziness, facial edema, fever, headache, insomnia, nausea, pain, rhinitis, viral infection, and vomiting. Clinical Practice The following reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1% in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to topical diclofenac sodium ophthalmic solution, 0.1%, or a combination of these factors, include corneal erosion, corneal infiltrates, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal ulceration and epithelial breakdown, (see PRECAUTIONS, General)."$$
