
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Precordial pain, arrhythmia (including ventricular), ECG changes, tachycardia, elevation of blood pressure, palpitation and rare reports of pulmonary hypertension. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination, have been reported. Valvulopathy has been very rarely reported with diethylpropion hydrochloride extended release tablets, 75 mg monotherapy, but the causal relationship remains uncertain. Central Nervous System: In a few epileptics an increase in convulsive episodes has been reported; rarely psychotic episodes at recommended doses; dyskinesia, blurred vision, overstimulation, nervousness, restlessness, dizziness, jitteriness, insomnia, anxiety, euphoria, depression, dysphoria, tremor, mydriasis, drowsiness, malaise, headache, and cerebrovascular accident Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, dryness of the mouth, unpleasant taste, nausea, constipation, other gastrointestinal disturbances Allergic: Urticaria, rash, ecchymosis, erythema Endocrine: Impotence, changes in libido, gynecomastia, menstrual upset Hematopoietic System: Bone marrow depression, agranulocytosis, leukopenia Miscellaneous: A variety of miscellaneous adverse reactions has been reported by physicians. These include complaints such as dysuria, dyspnea, hair loss, muscle pain, increased sweating, and polyuria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Precordial pain, arrhythmia (including ventricular), ECG changes, tachycardia, elevation of blood pressure, palpitation and rare reports of pulmonary hypertension. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination, have been reported. Valvulopathy has been very rarely reported with diethylpropion hydrochloride monotherapy, but the causal relationship remains uncertain. Central Nervous System: In a few epileptics an increase in convulsive episodes has been reported; rarely psychotic episodes at recommended doses; dyskinesia, blurred vision, overstimulation, nervousness, restlessness, dizziness, jitteriness, insomnia, anxiety, euphoria, depression, dysphoria, tremor, mydriasis, drowsiness, malaise, headache, and cerebrovascular accident Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, dryness of the mouth, unpleasant taste, nausea, constipation, other gastrointestinal disturbances Allergic: Urticaria, rash, ecchymosis, erythema Endocrine: Impotence, changes in libido, gynecomastia, menstrual upset Hematopoietic System: Bone marrow depression, agranulocytosis, leukopenia Miscellaneous: A variety of miscellaneous adverse reactions has been reported by physicians. These include complaints such as dysuria, dyspnea, hair loss, muscle pain, increased sweating, and polyuria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Precordial pain, arrhythmia (including ventricular), ECG changes, tachycardia, elevation of blood pressure, palpitation and rare reports of pulmonary hypertension. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination, have been reported. Valvulopathy has been very rarely reported with diethylpropion hydrochloride tablets USP, 25 mg monotherapy, but the causal relationship remains uncertain. Central Nervous System: In a few epileptics an increase in convulsive episodes has been reported; rarely psychotic episodes at recommended doses; dyskinesia, blurred vision, overstimulation, nervousness, restlessness, dizziness, jitteriness, insomnia, anxiety, euphoria, depression, dysphoria, tremor, mydriasis, drowsiness, malaise, headache, and cerebrovascular accident Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, dryness of the mouth, unpleasant taste, nausea, constipation, other gastrointestinal disturbances Allergic: Urticaria, rash, ecchymosis, erythema Endocrine: Impotence, changes in libido, gynecomastia, menstrual upset Hematopoietic System: Bone marrow depression, agranulocytosis, leukopenia Miscellaneous: A variety of miscellaneous adverse reactions has been reported by physicians. These include complaints such as dysuria, dyspnea, hair loss, muscle pain, increased sweating, and polyuria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Precordial pain, arrhythmia (including ventricular), ECG changes, tachycardia, elevation of blood pressure, palpitation and rare reports of pulmonary hypertension. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination, have been reported. Valvulopathy has been very rarely reported with diethylpropion hydrochloride monotherapy, but the causal relationship remains uncertain. Cardiovascular: In a few epileptics an increase in convulsive episodes has been reported; rarely psychotic episodes at recommended doses; dyskinesia, blurred vision, overstimulation, nervousness, restlessness, dizziness, jitteriness, insomnia, anxiety, euphoria, depression, dysphoria, tremor, mydriasis, drowsiness, malaise, headache, and cerebrovascular accident Central Nervous System: Vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, dryness of the mouth, unpleasant taste, nausea, constipation, other gastrointestinal disturbances Gastrointestinal: Urticaria, rash, ecchymosis, erythema Allergic: Impotence, changes in libido, gynecomastia, menstrual upset Endocrine: Bone marrow depression, agranulocytosis, leukopenia Hematopoietic System: A variety of miscellaneous adverse reactions has been reported by physicians. These include complaints such as dysuria, dyspnea, hair loss, muscle pain, increased sweating, and polyuria. Miscellaneous:"$$
"Drug Interactions Because diethylpropion hydrochloride extended release tablets, 75 mg are monoamines, hypertension may result when either agent is used with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Efficacy of diethylpropion with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems; therefore, the concomitant use with other anorectic agents is contraindicated. Antidiabetic drug requirements (i.e., insulin) may be altered. Concurrent use with general anesthetics may result in arrhythmias. The pressor effects of diethylpropion and those of other drugs may be additive when the drugs are used concomitantly; conversely, diethylpropion may interfere with antihypertensive drugs (i.e., guanethidine, a-methyldopa). Concurrent use of phenothiazines may antagonize the anorectic effect of diethylpropion."$$
"Drug Interactions Because diethylpropion hydrochloride is a monoamine, hypertension may result when this agent is used with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (see ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Efficacy of diethylpropion with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems; therefore, the concomitant use with other anorectic agents is contraindicated. Antidiabetic drug requirements (i.e., insulin) may be altered. Concurrent use with general anesthetics may result in arrhythmias. The pressor effects of diethylpropion and those of other drugs may be additive when the drugs are used concomitantly; conversely, diethylpropion may interfere with antihypertensive drugs (i.e., guanethidine, \\316\\261-methyldopa). Concurrent use of phenothiazines may antagonize the anorectic effect of diethylpropion."$$
"Drug Interactions Because diethylpropion hydrochloride is a monoamine, hypertension may result when this agent is used with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Efficacy of diethylpropion with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems; therefore, the concomitant use with other anorectic agents is contraindicated. Antidiabetic drug requirements (i.e., insulin) may be altered. Concurrent use with general anesthetics may result in arrhythmias. The pressor effects of diethylpropion and those of other drugs may be additive when the drugs are used concomitantly; conversely, diethylpropion may interfere with antihypertensive drugs (i.e., guanethidine, \\316\\261-methyldopa). Concurrent use of phenothiazines may antagonize the anorectic effect of diethylpropion."$$
"Drug Interactions Because diethylpropion hydrochloride is a monoamine, hypertension may result when this agent is used with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Efficacy of diethylpropion with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems; therefore, the concomitant use with other anorectic agents is contraindicated. Antidiabetic drug requirements (i.e., insulin) may be altered. Concurrent use with general anesthetics may result in arrhythmias. The pressor effects of diethylpropion and those of other drugs may be additive when the drugs are used concomitantly; conversely, diethylpropion may interfere with antihypertensive drugs (i.e., guanethidine, \\316\\261-methyldopa). Concurrent use of phenothiazines may antagonize the anorectic effect of diethylpropion."$$
"Drug Interactions Because diethylpropion hydrochloride tablets USP, 25 mg are monoamines, hypertension may result when either agent is used with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Efficacy of diethylpropion with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems; therefore, the concomitant use with other anorectic agents is contraindicated. Antidiabetic drug requirements (i.e., insulin) may be altered. Concurrent use with general anesthetics may result in arrhythmias. The pressor effects of diethylpropion and those of other drugs may be additive when the drugs are used concomitantly; conversely, diethylpropion may interfere with antihypertensive drugs (i.e., guanethidine, a-methyldopa). Concurrent use of phenothiazines may antagonize the anorectic effect of diethylpropion."$$
