
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions observed in controlled clinical trials encompass observations in 2,427 patients. Listed below are the adverse reactions reported in the 1,314 of these patients who received treatment in studies of two weeks or longer. Five hundred thirteen patients were treated for at least 24 weeks, 255 patients were treated for at least 48 weeks, and 46 patients were treated for 96 weeks. In general, the adverse reactions listed below were 2 to 14 times less frequent in the 1,113 patients who received short-term treatment for mild to moderate pain. Incidence Greater Than 1% GastrointestinalThe most frequent types of adverse reactions occurring with diflunisal are gastrointestinal: these include nausea*2, vomiting, dyspepsia*2, gastrointestinal pain*2, diarrhea*2, constipation, and flatulence. PsychiatricSomnolence, insomnia. Central Nervous SystemDizziness. Special SensesTinnitus. DermatologicRash*2. MiscellaneousHeadache*2, fatigue/tiredness.2 * Incidence between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in 1% to 3% are not marked with an asterisk. Incidence Less Than 1 in 100The following adverse reactions, occurring less frequently than 1 in 100, were reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed. The probability exists of a causal relationship between diflunisal and these adverse reactions. DermatologicErythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, pruritus, sweating, dry mucous membranes, stomatitis, photosensitivity. GastrointestinalPeptic ulcer, gastrointestinal bleeding, anorexia, eructation, gastrointestinal perforation, gastritis. Liver function abnormalities; jaundice, sometimes with fever; cholestasis; hepatitis. HematologicThrombocytopenia; agranulocytosis; hemolytic anemia. GenitourinaryDysuria; renal impairment, including renal failure; interstitial nephritis; hematuria; proteinuria. PsychiatricNervousness, depression, hallucinations, confusion, disorientation. Central Nervous SystemVertigo; light-headedness; paresthesias. Special SensesTransient visual disturbances including blurred vision. Hypersensitivity ReactionsAcute anaphylactic reaction with bronchospasm; angioedema; flushing. Hypersensitivity vasculitis. Hypersensitivity syndrome (see PRECAUTIONS). MiscellaneousAsthenia, edema. Causal Relationship UnknownOther reactions have been reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed, but occurred under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established. However, in these rarely reported events, that possibility cannot be excluded. Therefore, these observations are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians. RespiratoryDyspnea. CardiovascularPalpitation, syncope. MusculoskeletalMuscle cramps. GenitourinaryNephrotic syndrome. Special SensesHearing loss. MiscellaneousChest pain. A rare occurrence of fulminant necrotizing fasciitis, particularly in association with Group A \\316\\262-hemolytic streptococcus, has been described in persons treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including diflunisal, sometimes with fatal outcome (see also PRECAUTIONS, General). Potential Adverse EffectsIn addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed with diflunisal in clinical trials or in marketing experience, but reported with other non-steroidal analgesic/anti-inflammatory agents should be considered potential adverse effects of diflunisal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions observed in controlled clinical trials encompass observations in 2,427 patients. Listed below are the adverse reactions reported in the 1,314 of these patients who received treatment in studies of two weeks or longer. Five hundred thirteen patients were treated for at least 24 weeks, 255 patients were treated for at least 48 weeks, and 46 patients were treated for 96 weeks. In general, the adverse reactions listed below were 2 to 14 times less frequent in the 1,113 patients who received short-term treatment for mild to moderate pain. Incidence Greater Than 1% Gastrointestinal The most frequent types of adverse reactions occurring with diflunisal are gastrointestinal: these include nausea*, vomiting, dyspepsia*, gastrointestinal pain*, diarrhea*, constipation, and flatulence. Psychiatric Somnolence, insomnia. Central Nervous System Dizziness. Special Senses Tinnitus. Dermatologic Rash*. Miscellaneous Headache*, fatigue/tiredness. * Incidence between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in 1% to 3% are not marked with an asterisk. Incidence Less Than 1 in 100 The following adverse reactions, occurring less frequently than 1 in 100, were reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed. The probability exists of a causal relationship between diflunisal and these adverse reactions. Dermatologic Erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, pruritus, sweating, dry mucous membranes, stomatitis, photosensitivity. Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer, gastrointestinal bleeding, anorexia, eructation, gastrointestinal perforation, gastritis. Liver function abnormalities; jaundice, sometimes with fever; cholestasis; hepatitis. Hematologic Thrombocytopenia; agranulocytosis; hemolytic anemia. Genitourinary Dysuria; renal impairment, including renal failure; interstitial nephritis; hematuria; proteinuria. Psychiatric Nervousness, depression, hallucinations, confusion, disorientation. Central Nervous System Vertigo; light-headedness; paresthesias. Special Senses Transient visual disturbances including blurred vision. Hypersensitivity Reactions Acute anaphylactic reaction with bronchospasm; angioedema; flushing. Hypersensitivity vasculitis. Hypersensitivity syndrome (see ). PRECAUTIONS Miscellaneous Asthenia, edema. Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions have been reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed, but occurred under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established. However, in these rarely reported events, that possibility cannot be excluded. Therefore, these observations are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians. Respiratory Dyspnea. Cardiovascular Palpitation, syncope. Musculoskeletal Muscle cramps. Genitourinary Nephrotic syndrome. Special Senses Hearing loss. Miscellaneous Chest pain. A rare occurrence of fulminant necrotizing fasciitis, particularly in association with Group A \\316\\262-hemolytic streptococcus, has been described in persons treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including diflunisal, sometimes with fatal outcome (see also ). PRECAUTIONS, General Potential Adverse Effects In addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed with diflunisal in clinical trials or in marketing experience, but reported with other non-steroidal analgesic/anti-inflammatory agents should be considered potential adverse effects of diflunisal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions observed in controlled clinical trials encompass observations in 2,427 patients. Listed below are the adverse reactions reported in the 1,314 of these patients who received treatment in studies of two weeks or longer. Five hundred thirteen patients were treated for at least 24 weeks, 255 patients were treated for at least 48 weeks, and 46 patients were treated for 96 weeks. In general, the adverse reactions listed below were 2 to 14 times less frequent in the 1,113 patients who received short-term treatment for mild to moderate pain. Incidence Greater Than 1% Gastrointestinal The most frequent types of adverse reactions occurring with diflunisal are gastrointestinal: these include nausea*, vomiting, dyspepsia*, gastrointestinal pain*, diarrhea*, constipation, and flatulence. Psychiatric Somnolence, insomnia. Central Nervous System Dizziness. Special Senses Tinnitus. Dermatologic Rash*. Miscellaneous Headache*, fatigue/tiredness. * Incidence between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in 1% to 3% are not marked with an asterisk. Incidence Less Than 1 in 100 The following adverse reactions, occurring less frequently than 1 in 100, were reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed. The probability exists of a causal relationship between diflunisal and these adverse reactions. Dermatologic Erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, pruritus, sweating, dry mucous membranes, stomatitis, photosensitivity. Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer, gastrointestinal bleeding, anorexia, eructation, gastrointestinal perforation, gastritis. Liver function abnormalities; jaundice, sometimes with fever; cholestasis; hepatitis. Hematologic Thrombocytopenia; agranulocytosis; hemolytic anemia. Genitourinary Dysuria; renal impairment, including renal failure; interstitial nephritis; hematuria; proteinuria. Psychiatric Nervousness, depression, hallucinations, confusion, disorientation. Central Nervous System Vertigo; light-headedness; paresthesias. Special Senses Transient visual disturbances including blurred vision. Hypersensitivity Reactions Acute anaphylactic reaction with bronchospasm; angioedema; flushing. Hypersensitivity vasculitis. Hypersensitivity syndrome (see PRECAUTIONS). Miscellaneous Asthenia, edema. Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions have been reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed, but occurred under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established. However, in these rarely reported events, that possibility cannot be excluded. Therefore, these observations are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians. Respiratory Dyspnea. Cardiovascular Palpitation, syncope. Musculoskeletal Muscle cramps. Genitourinary Nephrotic syndrome. Special Senses Hearing loss. Miscellaneous Chest pain. A rare occurrence of fulminant necrotizing fasciitis, particularly in association with Group A \\316\\262-hemolytic streptococcus, has been described in persons treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including diflunisal, sometimes with fatal outcome (see also PRECAUTIONS, General). Potential Adverse Effects In addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed with diflunisal in clinical trials or in marketing experience, but reported with other non-steroidal analgesic/anti-inflammatory agents should be considered potential adverse effects of diflunisal."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions observed in controlled clinical trials encompass observations in 2,427 patients. Listed below are the adverse reactions reported in the 1,314 of these patients who received treatment in studies of two weeks or longer. Five hundred thirteen patients were treated for at least 24 weeks, 255 patients were treated for at least 48 weeks, and 46 patients were treated for 96 weeks. In general, the adverse reactions listed below were 2 to 14 times less frequent in the 1,113 patients who received short-term treatment for mild to moderate pain. Incidence Greater Than 1% Gastrointestinal The most frequent types of adverse reactions occurring with diflunisal are gastrointestinal: these include nausea*, vomiting, dyspepsia*, gastrointestinal pain*, diarrhea*, constipation, and flatulence. Psychiatric Somnolence, insomnia. Central Nervous System Dizziness. Special Senses Tinnitus. Dermatologic Rash*. Miscellaneous Headache*, fatigue/tiredness. * Incidence between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in 1% to 3% are not marked with an asterisk. Incidence Less Than 1 in 100 The following adverse reactions, occurring less frequently than 1 in 100, were reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed. The probability exists of a causal relationship between diflunisal and these adverse reactions. Dermatologic Erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, pruritus, sweating, dry mucous membranes, stomatitis, photosensitivity. Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer, gastrointestinal bleeding, anorexia, eructation, gastrointestinal perforation, gastritis. Liver function abnormalities; jaundice, sometimes with fever; cholestasis; hepatitis. Hematologic Thrombocytopenia; agranulocytosis; hemolytic anemia. Genitourinary Dysuria; renal impairment, including renal failure; interstitial nephritis; hematuria; proteinuria. Psychiatric Nervousness, depression, hallucinations, confusion, disorientation. Central Nervous System Vertigo; light-headedness; paresthesias. Special Senses Transient visual disturbances including blurred vision. Hypersensitivity Reactions Acute anaphylactic reaction with bronchospasm; angioedema; flushing. Hypersensitivity vasculitis. Hypersensitivity syndrome (see PRECAUTIONS ). Miscellaneous Asthenia, edema. Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions have been reported in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed, but occurred under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established. However, in these rarely reported events, that possibility cannot be excluded. Therefore, these observations are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians. Respiratory Dyspnea. Cardiovascular Palpitation, syncope. Musculoskeletal Muscle cramps. Genitourinary Nephrotic syndrome. Special Senses Hearing loss. Miscellaneous Chest pain. A rare occurrence of fulminant necrotizing fasciitis, particularly in association with Group A \\316\\262-hemolytic streptococcus, has been described in persons treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including diflunisal, sometimes with fatal outcome (see also PRECAUTIONS, General ). Potential Adverse Effects In addition, a variety of adverse effects not observed with diflunisal in clinical trials or in marketing experience, but reported with other non-steroidal analgesic/anti-inflammatory agents should be considered potential adverse effects of diflunisal. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Rising Pharmaceuticals at 1-866-562-4597 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors and Angiotensin II Anagonists Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II antagonists. These interactions should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors or angiotensin II antagonists. In some patients with compromised renal function, the coadministration of an NSAID and an ACE-inhibitor or an angiotensin II antagonist may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Acetaminophen In normal volunteers, concomitant administration of diflunisal and acetaminophen resulted in an approximate 50% increase in plasma levels of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen had no effect on plasma levels of diflunisal. Since acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with hepatotoxicity, concomitant administration of diflunisal tablets and acetaminophen should be used cautiously, with careful monitoring of patients. Concomitant administration of diflunisal and acetaminophen in dogs, but not in rats, at approximately 2 times the recommended maximum human therapeutic dose of each (40 to 52 mg/kg/day of diflunisal/acetaminophen), resulted in greater gastrointestinal toxicity than when either drug was administered alone. The clinical significance of these findings has not been established. Antacids Concomitant administration of antacids may reduce plasma levels of diflunisal. This effect is small with occasional doses of antacids, but may be clinically significant when antacids are used on a continuous schedule. Aspirin When diflunisal is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free diflunisal is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diflunisal tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. In normal volunteers, a small decrease in diflunisal levels was observed when multiple doses of diflunisal and aspirin were administered concomitantly. Cyclosporine Administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs concomitantly with cyclosporine has been associated with an increase in cyclosporine-induced toxicity, possibly due to decreased synthesis of renal prostacyclin. NSAIDs should be used with caution in patients taking cyclosporine, and renal function should be carefully monitored. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diflunisal can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. In normal volunteers, concomitant administration of diflunisal and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in significantly increased plasma levels of hydrochlorothiazide. Diflunisal decreased the hyperuricemic effect of hydrochlorothiazide. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see , ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. WARNINGS Renal Effects Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. NSAIDs The administration of diflunisal to normal volunteers receiving indomethacin decreased the renal clearance and significantly increased the plasma levels of indomethacin. In some patients the combined use of indomethacin and diflunisal has been associated with fatal gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Therefore, indomethacin and diflunisal tablets should not be used concomitantly. The concomitant use of diflunisal tablets and other NSAIDs is not recommended due to the increased possibility of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. The following information was obtained from studies in normal volunteers. Sulindac The concomitant administration of diflunisal and sulindac in normal volunteers resulted in lowering of the plasma levels of the active sulindac sulfide metabolite by approximately one-third. Naproxen The concomitant administration of diflunisal and naproxen in normal volunteers had no effect on the plasma levels of naproxen, but significantly decreased the urinary excretion of naproxen and its glucuronide metabolite. Naproxen had no effect on plasma levels of diflunisal."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors and Angiotensin II Anagonists Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II antagonists. These interactions should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors or angiotensin II antagonists. In some patients with compromised renal function, the coadministration of an NSAID and an ACE-inhibitor or an angiotensin II antagonist may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Acetaminophen In normal volunteers, concomitant administration of diflunisal and acetaminophen resulted in an approximate 50% increase in plasma levels of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen had no effect on plasma levels of diflunisal. Since acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with hepatotoxicity, concomitant administration of diflunisal tablets and acetaminophen should be used cautiously, with careful monitoring of patients. Concomitant administration of diflunisal and acetaminophen in dogs, but not in rats, at approximately 2 times the recommended maximum human therapeutic dose of each (40 to 52 mg/kg/day of diflunisal/acetaminophen), resulted in greater gastrointestinal toxicity than when either drug was administered alone. The clinical significance of these findings has not been established. Antacids Concomitant administration of antacids may reduce plasma levels of diflunisal. This effect is small with occasional doses of antacids, but may be clinically significant when antacids are used on a continuous schedule. Aspirin When diflunisal is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free diflunisal is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diflunisal tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. In normal volunteers, a small decrease in diflunisal levels was observed when multiple doses of diflunisal and aspirin were administered concomitantly. Cyclosporine Administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs concomitantly with cyclosporine has been associated with an increase in cyclosporine-induced toxicity, possibly due to decreased synthesis of renal prostacyclin. NSAIDs should be used with caution in patients taking cyclosporine, and renal function should be carefully monitored. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diflunisal can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. In normal volunteers, concomitant administration of diflunisal and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in significantly increased plasma levels of hydrochlorothiazide. Diflunisal decreased the hyperuricemic effect of hydrochlorothiazide. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. NSAIDs The administration of diflunisal to normal volunteers receiving indomethacin decreased the renal clearance and significantly increased the plasma levels of indomethacin. In some patients the combined use of indomethacin and diflunisal has been associated with fatal gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Therefore, indomethacin and diflunisal tablets should not be used concomitantly. The concomitant use of diflunisal tablets and other NSAIDs is not recommended due to the increased possibility of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. The following information was obtained from studies in normal volunteers. Sulindac The concomitant administration of diflunisal and sulindac in normal volunteers resulted in lowering of the plasma levels of the active sulindac sulfide metabolite by approximately one-third. Naproxen The concomitant administration of diflunisal and naproxen in normal volunteers had no effect on the plasma levels of naproxen, but significantly decreased the urinary excretion of naproxen and its glucuronide metabolite. Naproxen had no effect on plasma levels of diflunisal."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors and Angiotensin II Anagonists Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II antagonists. These interactions should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors or angiotensin II antagonists. In some patients with compromised renal function, the coadministration of an NSAID and an ACE-inhibitor or an angiotensin II antagonist may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Acetaminophen In normal volunteers, concomitant administration of diflunisal and acetaminophen resulted in an approximate 50% increase in plasma levels of acetaminophen. Acetaminophen had no effect on plasma levels of diflunisal. Since acetaminophen in high doses has been associated with hepatotoxicity, concomitant administration of diflunisal tablets and acetaminophen should be used cautiously, with careful monitoring of patients. Concomitant administration of diflunisal and acetaminophen in dogs, but not in rats, at approximately 2 times the recommended maximum human therapeutic dose of each (40 to 52 mg/kg/day of diflunisal/acetaminophen), resulted in greater gastrointestinal toxicity than when either drug was administered alone. The clinical significance of these findings has not been established. Antacids Concomitant administration of antacids may reduce plasma levels of diflunisal. This effect is small with occasional doses of antacids, but may be clinically significant when antacids are used on a continuous schedule. Aspirin When diflunisal is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free diflunisal is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diflunisal tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. In normal volunteers, a small decrease in diflunisal levels was observed when multiple doses of diflunisal and aspirin were administered concomitantly. Cyclosporine Administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs concomitantly with cyclosporine has been associated with an increase in cyclosporine-induced toxicity, possibly due to decreased synthesis of renal prostacyclin. NSAIDs should be used with caution in patients taking cyclosporine, and renal function should be carefully monitored. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diflunisal can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. In normal volunteers, concomitant administration of diflunisal and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in significantly increased plasma levels of hydrochlorothiazide. Diflunisal decreased the hyperuricemic effect of hydrochlorothiazide. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. NSAIDs The administration of diflunisal to normal volunteers receiving indomethacin decreased the renal clearance and significantly increased the plasma levels of indomethacin. In some patients the combined use of indomethacin and diflunisal has been associated with fatal gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Therefore, indomethacin and diflunisal tablets should not be used concomitantly. The concomitant use of diflunisal tablets and other NSAIDs is not recommended due to the increased possibility of gastrointestinal toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy. The following information was obtained from studies in normal volunteers. Sulindac The concomitant administration of diflunisal and sulindac in normal volunteers resulted in lowering of the plasma levels of the active sulindac sulfide metabolite by approximately one-third. Naproxen The concomitant administration of diflunisal and naproxen in normal volunteers had no effect on the plasma levels of naproxen, but significantly decreased the urinary excretion of naproxen and its glucuronide metabolite. Naproxen had no effect on plasma levels of diflunisal. Oral Anticoagulants In some normal volunteers, the concomitant administration of diflunisal and warfarin, acenocoumarol, or phenprocoumon resulted in prolongation of prothrombin time. This may occur because diflunisal competitively displaces coumarins from protein binding sites. Accordingly, when diflunisal tablets are administered with oral anticoagulants, the prothrombin time should be closely monitored during and for several days after concomitant drug administration. Adjustment of dosage of oral anticoagulants may be required. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Tolbutamide In diabetic patients receiving diflunisal and tolbutamide, no significant effects were seen on tolbutamide plasma levels or fasting blood glucose."$$
