
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with other topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infections, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: 1.Burning 2.Itching 3.Irritation 4.Dryness 5.Folliculitis 6.Hypertrichosis 7.Acneiform eruptions 8.Hypopigmentation 9.Perioral dermatitis 10.Allergic contact dermatitis 11.Maceration of the skin 12.Secondary infections 13.Skin atrophy 14.Striae 15.Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Itching Irritation Dryness Folliculitis Hypertrichosis Acneiform eruptions Hypopigmentation Perioral dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis Maceration of the skin Secondary infections Skin atrophy Striae Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence: 1. Burning 2. Itching 3. Irritation 4. Dryness 5. Folliculitis 6. Hypertrichosis 7. Acneiform eruptions 8. Hypopigmentation 9. Perioral dermatitis 10. Allergic contact dermatitis 11. Maceration of the skin 12. Secondary infection 13. Skin atrophy 14. Striae 15. Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Itching Irritation Dryness Folliculitis Hypertrichosis Acneiform eruptions Hypopigmentation Perioral dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis Maceration of the skin Secondary infection Skin atrophy Striae Miliaria"$$
