
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported coincident with the administration of DOPRAM (doxapram hydrochloride, USP) include: 1. Central and Autonomic Nervous Systems Pyrexia, flushing, sweating; pruritus and paresthesia, such as a feeling of warmth, burning, or hot sensation, especially in the area of genitalia and perineum; apprehension, disorientation, pupillary dilatation, hallucinations, headache, dizziness, hyperactivity, involuntary movements, muscle spasticity, muscle fasciculations, increased deep tendon reflexes, clonus, bilateral Babinski, and convulsions. 2. Respiratory Dyspnea, cough, hyperventilation, tachypnea, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hiccough, and rebound hypoventilation. 3. Cardiovascular Phlebitis, variations in heart rate, lowered T-waves, arrhythmias (including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation), chest pain, tightness in chest. A mild to moderate increase in blood pressure is commonly noted and may be of concern in patients with severe cardiovascular diseases. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, desire to defecate. 5. Genitourinary Stimulation of urinary bladder with spontaneous voiding; urinary retention. Elevation of BUN and albuminuria. 6. Hemic and Lymphatic Hemolysis with rapid infusion. A decrease in hemoglobin, hematocrit, or red blood cell count has been observed in postoperative patients. In the presence of pre-existing leukopenia, a further decrease in WBC has been observed following anesthesia and treatment with doxapram hydrochloride."$$
"Drug Interactions Administration of doxapram to patients who are receiving sympathomimetic or monoamine oxidase inhibiting drugs may result in an additive pressor effect (see PRECAUTIONS, General ). In patients who have received neuromuscular blocking agents, doxapram may temporarily mask the residual effects of these drugs. In patients who have received general anesthesia utilizing a volatile agent known to sensitize the myocardium to catecholamines, administration of doxapram should be delayed until the volatile agent has been excreted in order to lessen the potential for arrhythmias, including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation (see WARNINGS ). There may be an interaction between doxapram and aminophylline and between doxapram and theophylline manifested by increased skeletal muscle activity, agitation, and hyperactivity."$$
