"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Need to Evaluate for Co-morbid Diagnoses: Reevaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of use. (5.1) Abnormal thinking, behavioral changes, complex behaviors: May include \\\\"Sleep-driving\\\\" and hallucinations. Immediately evaluate any new onset behavioral changes. (5.2) Depression: Worsening of depression or suicidal thinking may occur. Prescribe the least amount feasible to avoid intentional overdose. (5.3) CNS-depressant effects: Use can impair alertness and motor coordination. Avoid engaging in hazardous activities such as operating a motor vehicle or heavy machinery after taking drug. (5.4) Do not use with alcohol. (5.4, 7.3) Potential additive effects when used in combination with CNS depressants or sedating antihistamines. Dose reduction may be needed. (5.4, 7.4) Patients with severe sleep apnea: Silenor is ordinarily not recommended for use in this population. (8.7) 5.1. Need to Evaluate for Comorbid Diagnoses Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and/or psychiatric disorder, symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after careful evaluation of the patient. The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and/or medical illness that should be evaluated. Exacerbation of insomnia or the emergence of new cognitive or behavioral abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder. Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with hypnotic drugs. 5.2. Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes Complex behaviors such as \\\\"sleep-driving\\\\" (i.e., driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a hypnotic, with amnesia for the event) have been reported with hypnotics. These events can occur in hypnotic-naive as well as in hypnotic-experienced persons. Although behaviors such as \\\\"sleep-driving\\\\" may occur with hypnotics alone at therapeutic doses, the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with hypnotics appears to increase the risk of such behaviors, as does the use of hypnotics at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose. Due to the risk to the patient and the community, discontinuation of Silenor should be strongly considered for patients who report a \\\\"sleep-driving\\\\" episode. Other complex behaviors (e.g., preparing and eating food, making phone calls, or having sex) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a hypnotic. As with \\\\"sleep-driving\\\\", patients usually do not remember these events. Amnesia, anxiety and other neuro-psychiatric symptoms may occur unpredictably. 5.3. Suicide Risk and Worsening of Depression In primarily depressed patients, worsening of depression, including suicidal thoughts and actions (including completed suicides), has been reported in association with the use of hypnotics. Doxepin, the active ingredient in Silenor, is an antidepressant at doses 10- to 100-fold higher than in Silenor. Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Risk from the lower dose of doxepin in Silenor can not be excluded. It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced, spontaneous in origin, or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder. Nonetheless, the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation. 5.4. CNS Depressant Effects After taking Silenor, patients should confine their activities to those necessary to prepare for bed. Patients should avoid engaging in hazardous activities, such as operating a motor vehicle or heavy machinery, at night after taking Silenor, and should be cautioned about potential impairment in the performance of such activities that may occur the day following ingestion. When taken with Silenor, the sedative effects of alcoholic beverages, sedating antihistamines, and other CNS depressants may be potentiated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3, 7.4) ]. Patients should not consume alcohol with Silenor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. Patients should be cautioned about potential additive effects of Silenor used in combination with CNS depressants or sedating antihistamines [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.4) ]."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of labeling: Abnormal thinking and behavioral changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Suicide risk and worsening of depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. CNS Depressant effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. The most common treatment-emergent adverse reactions, reported in >= 2% of patients treated with Silenor, and more commonly than in patients treated with placebo, were somnolence/sedation, nausea, and upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pernix Therapeutics, LLC. at 1-877-SILENOR (745-3667) and www.silenor.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1. Clinical Trials Experience The pre-marketing development program for Silenor included doxepin HCl exposures in 1017 subjects (580 insomnia patients and 437 healthy subjects) from 12 studies conducted in the United States. 863 of these subjects (580 insomnia patients and 283 healthy subjects) participated in six randomized, placebo-controlled efficacy studies with Silenor doses of 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg for up to 3-months in duration. Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. However, data from the Silenor studies provide the physician with a basis for estimating the relative contributions of drug and non-drug factors to adverse reaction incidence rates in the populations studied. Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment The percentage of subjects discontinuing Phase 1, 2, and 3 trials for an adverse reaction was 0.6% in the placebo group compared to 0.4%, 1.0%, and 0.7% in the Silenor 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg groups, respectively. No reaction that resulted in discontinuation occurred at a rate greater than 0.5%. Adverse Reactions Observed at an Incidence of >= 2% in Controlled Trials Table 1 shows the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse reactions from three long-term (28 to 85 days) placebo-controlled studies of Silenor in adult (N=221) and elderly (N=494) subjects with chronic insomnia. Reactions reported by Investigators were classified using a modified MedDRA dictionary of preferred terms for purposes of establishing incidence. The table includes only reactions that occurred in 2% or more of subjects who received Silenor 3 mg or 6 mg in which the incidence in subjects treated with Silenor was greater than the incidence in placebo-treated subjects. Table 1 Incidence (%) of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions in Long-term Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials System Organ Class Preferred TermIncludes reactions that occurred at a rate of >= 2% in any Silenor-treated group and at a higher rate than placebo. Placebo (N=278) Silenor 3 mg (N=157) Silenor 6 mg (N=203) Nervous System Disorders Somnolence/Sedation 4 6 9 Infections and Infestations Upper Respiratory Tract Infection/Nasopharyngitis 2 4 2 Gastroenteritis 0 2 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 1 2 2 Vascular Disorders Hypertension 0 3 < 1 The most common treatment-emergent adverse reaction in the placebo and each of the Silenor dose groups was somnolence/sedation. 6.2. Studies Pertinent to Safety Concerns for Sleep-promoting Drugs Residual Pharmacological Effect in Insomnia Trials Five randomized, placebo-controlled studies in adults and the elderly assessed next-day psychomotor function within 1 hour of awakening utilizing the digit-symbol substitution test (DSST), symbol copying test (SCT), and visual analog scale (VAS) for sleepiness, following night time administration of Silenor. In a one-night, double-blind study conducted in 565 healthy adult subjects experiencing transient insomnia, Silenor 6 mg showed modest negative changes in SCT and VAS. In a 35-day, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study of Silenor 3 and 6 mg in 221 adults with chronic insomnia, small decreases in the DSST and SCT occurred in the 6 mg group. In a 3-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study in 240 elderly subjects with chronic insomnia, Silenor 1 mg and 3 mg was comparable to placebo on DSST, SCT, and VAS. 6.3. Other Reactions Observed During the Pre-marketing Evaluation of Silenor Silenor was administered to 1017 subjects in clinical trials in the United States. Treatment-emergent adverse reactions recorded by clinical investigators were standardized using a modified MedDRA dictionary of preferred terms. The following is a list of MedDRA terms that reflect treatment-emergent adverse reactions reported by subjects treated with Silenor. Adverse reactions are further categorized by body system and listed in order of decreasing frequency according to the following definitions: Frequent adverse reactions are those that occurred on one or more occasions in at least 1/100 subjects; Infrequent adverse reactions are those that occurred in fewer than 1/100 subjects and more than 1/1000 subjects. Rare adverse reactions are those that occurred in fewer than 1/1000 subjects. Adverse reactions that are listed in Table 1 are not included in the following listing of frequent, infrequent, and rare AEs. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Infrequent: anemia; Rare: thrombocythemia. Cardiac Disorders: Rare: atrioventricular block, palpitations, tachycardia, ventricular extrasystoles. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Rare: ear pain, hypoacusis, motion sickness, tinnitus, tympanic membrane perforation. Eye Disorders: Infrequent: eye redness, vision blurred; Rare: blepharospasm, diplopia, eye pain, lacrimation decreased. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Infrequent: abdominal pain, dry mouth, gastroesophageal reflux disease, vomiting; Rare: dyspepsia, constipation, gingival recession, haematochezia, lip blister. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infrequent: asthenia, chest pain, fatigue; Rare: chills, gait abnormal, edema peripheral. Hepatobiliary Disorders: Rare: hyperbilirubinemia. Immune System Disorders: Rare: hypersensitivity. Infections and Infestations: Infrequent: bronchitis, fungal infection, laryngitis, sinusitis, tooth infection, urinary tract infection, viral infection; Rare: cellulitis staphylococcal, eye infection, folliculitis, gastroenteritis viral, herpes zoster, infective tenosynovitis, influenza, lower respiratory tract infection, onychomycosis, pharyngitis, pneumonia. Injury, Poisoning and Procedural Complications: Infrequent: back injury, fall, joint sprain; Rare: bone fracture, skin laceration. Investigations: Infrequent: blood glucose increased; Rare: alanine aminotransferase increased, blood pressure decreased, blood pressure increased, electrocardiogram ST-T segment abnormal, electrocardiogram QRS complex abnormal, heart rate decreased, neutrophil count decreased, QRS axis abnormal, transaminases increased. Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Infrequent: anorexia, decreased appetite, hyperkalemia, hypermagnesemia, increased appetite; Rare: hypokalemia. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : Infrequent: arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, neck pain, pain in extremity; Rare: joint range of motion decreased, muscle cramp, sensation of heaviness. Neoplasms Benign, Malignant and Unspecified (Including Cysts and Polyps): Rare: lung adenocarcinoma stage I, malignant melanoma. Nervous System Disorders: Frequent: dizziness; Infrequent: dysgeusia, lethargy, parasthesia, syncope; Rare: ageusia, ataxia, cerebrovascular accident, disturbance in attention, migraine, sleep paralysis, syncope vasovagal, tremor. Psychiatric Disorders: Infrequent: abnormal dreams, adjustment disorder, anxiety, depression; Rare: confusional state, elevated mood, insomnia, libido decreased, nightmare. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Rare: breast cyst, dysmenorrhea. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Rare: dysuria, enuresis, hemoglobinuria, nocturia. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Infrequent: nasal congestion, pharyngolaryngeal pain, sinus congestion, wheezing; Rare: cough, crackles lung, nasopharyngeal disorder, rhinorrhea, dyspnea. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Infrequent: skin irritation; Rare: cold sweat, dermatitis, erythema, hyperhidrosis, pruritis, rash, rosacea. Surgical and Medical Procedures: Rare: arthrodesis. Vascular Disorders: Infrequent: pallor; Rare: blood pressure inadequately controlled, hematoma, hot flush. In addition, the reactions below have been reported for other tricyclics and may be idiosyncratic (not related to dose). Allergic: photosensitization, skin rash. Hematologic: agranulocytosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS MAO inhibitors: Silenor should not be administered in patients on MAOIs within the past two weeks. (4.2) Cimetidine: Increases exposure to doxepin. (7.2) Alcohol: Sedative effects may be increased with doxepin. (7.3, 5.4) CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines: Sedative effects may be increased with doxepin. (7.4, 5.4) Tolazamide: A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported. (7.5) 7.1. Cytochrome P450 Isozymes Silenor is primarily metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP2C19 and CYP2D6, and to a lesser extent, by CYP1A2 and CYP2C9. Inhibitors of these isozymes may increase the exposure of doxepin. Silenor is not an inhibitor of any CYP isozymes at therapeutically relevant concentrations. The ability of Silenor to induce CYP isozymes is not known. 7.2. Cimetidine Silenor exposure is doubled with concomitant administration of cimetidine, a nonspecific inhibitor of CYP isozymes. A maximum dose of 3 mg is recommended in adults and elderly when cimetidine is co-administered with Silenor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)] 7.3. Alcohol When taken with Silenor, the sedative effects of alcohol may be potentiated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.4) ]. 7.4. CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines When taken with Silenor, the sedative effects of sedating antihistamines and CNS depressants may be potentiated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.4) ]. 7.5. Tolazamide A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide (1 g/day) 11 days after the addition of oral doxepin (75 mg/day)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS NOTE: Some of the adverse reactions noted below have not been specifically reported with doxepin HCl use. However, due to the close pharmacological similarities among the tricyclics, the reactions should be considered when prescribing doxepin HCl. Anticholinergic Effects: Dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation, and urinary retention have been reported. If they do not subside with continued therapy, or become severe, it may be necessary to reduce the dosage. Central Nervous System Effects: Drowsiness is the most commonly noticed side effect. This tends to disappear as therapy is continued. Other infrequently reported CNS side effects are confusion, disorientation, hallucinations, numbness, parethesias, ataxia, extrapyramidal symptoms, seizures, tardive dyskinesia and tremor. Cardiovascular: Cardiovascular effects including hypotension, hypertension, and tachycardia have been reported occasionally. Allergic: Skin rash, edema, photosensitization, and pruritus have occasionally occurred. Hematologic: Eosinophilia has been reported in a few patients. There have been occasional reports of bone marrow depression manifesting as agranulocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and purpura. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, indigestion, taste disturbances, diarrhea, anorexia, and aphthous stomatitis have been reported. (See Anticholinergic Effects.) Endocrine: Raised or lowered libido, testicular swelling, gynecomastia in males, enlargement of breasts and galactorrhea in the female, raising or lowering of blood sugar levels and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion have been reported with tricyclic administration. Other: Dizziness, tinnitus, weight gain, sweating, chills, fatigue, weakness, flushing, jaundice, alopecia, headache, exacerbation of asthma, and hyperpyrexia (in association with chlorpromazine) have been occasionally observed as adverse effects. Withdrawal Symptoms: The possibility of development of withdrawal symptoms upon abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged doxepin HCl administration should be borne in mind. These are not indicative of addiction and gradual withdrawal of medication should not cause these symptoms."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS NOTE: Some of the adverse reactions noted below have not been specifically reported with doxepin HCl use. However, due to the close pharmacological similarities among the tricyclics, the reactions should be considered when prescribing doxepin HCl. Anticholinergic Effects: Dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation, and urinary retention have been reported. If they do not subside with continued therapy, or become severe, it may be necessary to reduce the dosage. Central Nervous System Effects: Drowsiness is the most commonly noticed side effect. This tends to disappear as therapy is continued. Other infrequently reported CNS side effects are confusion, disorientation, hallucinations, numbness, parethesias, ataxia, extrapyramidal symptoms, seizures, tardive dyskinesia and tremor. Cardiovascular: Cardiovascular effects including hypotension, hypertension, and tachycardia have been reported occasionally. Allergic: Skin rash, edema, photosensitization, and pruritus have occasionally occurred. Hematologic: Eosinophilia has been reported in a few patients. There have been occasional reports of bone marrow depression manifesting as agranulocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and purpura. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, indigestion, taste disturbances, diarrhea, anorexia, and aphthous stomatitis have been reported. (SeeAnticholinergic Effects.) Endocrine: Raised or lowered libido, testicular swelling, gynecomastia in males, enlargement of breasts and galactorrhea in the female, raising or lowering of blood sugar levels and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion have been reported with tricyclic administration. Other: Dizziness, tinnitus, weight gain, sweating, chills, fatigue, weakness, flushing, jaundice, alopecia, headache, exacerbation of asthma, and hyperpyrexia (in association with chlorpromazine) have been occasionally observed as adverse effects. Withdrawal Symptoms: The possibility of development of withdrawal symptoms upon abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged doxepin HCl administration should be borne in mind. These are not indicative of addiction and gradual withdrawal of medication should not cause these symptoms."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS NOTE: Some of the adverse reactions noted below have not been specifically reported with doxepin HCl use. However, due to the close pharmacological similarities among the tricyclics, the reactions should be considered when prescribing doxepin HCl. Anticholinergic Effects: Dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation, and urinary retention have been reported. If they do not subside with continued therapy, or become severe, it may be necessary to reduce the dosage. Central Nervous System Effects: Drowsiness is the most commonly noticed side effect. This tends to disappear as therapy is continued. Other infrequently reported CNS side effects are confusion, disorientation, hallucinations, numbness, parethesias, ataxia, extrapyramidal symptoms, seizures, tardive dyskinesia and tremor. Cardiovascular: Cardiovascular effects including hypotension, hypertension, and tachycardia have been reported occasionally. Allergic: Skin rash, edema, photosensitization, and pruritus have occasionally occurred. Hematologic: Eosinophillia has been reported in a few patients. There have been occasional reports of bone marrow depression manifesting as agranulocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and purpura. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, indigestion, taste disturbances, diarrhea, anorexia, and aphthous stomatitis have been reported. (SeeAnticholinergic Effects.) Endocrine: Raised or lowered libido, testicular swelling, gynecomastia in males, enlargement of breasts and galactorrhea in the female, raising or lowering of blood sugar levels and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion have been reported with tricyclic administration. Other: Dizziness, tinnitus, weight gain, sweating, chills, fatigue, weakness, flushing, jaundice, alopecia, headache, exacerbation of asthma, and hyperpyrexia (in association with chlorpromazine) have been occasionally observed as adverse effects. Withdrawal Symptoms: The possibility of development of withdrawal symptoms upon abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged doxepin HCl administration should be borne in mind. These are not indicative of addiction and gradual withdrawal of medication should not cause these symptoms."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6: The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population (about 7-10% of Caucasians are so-called "poor metabolizers"); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) when given usual doses. Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6, the increase in plasma concentration may be small, or quite large (8-fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA). In addition, certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers. An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy. The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme (quinidine; cimetidine) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 (many other antidepressants, phenothiazines, and the Type 1C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide). While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), e.g., citalopram, escitalopram, fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine, inhibit P450 2D6, they may vary in the extent of inhibition. The extent to which SSRI-TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the co-administration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other. Of particular importance, sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine, given the long half-life of the parent and active metabolite (at least 5 weeks may be necessary). Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug. Furthermore, whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co-therapy, an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required. It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be co-administered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6. Doxepin is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 (with CYP1A2 & CYP3A4 as minor pathways). Inihibitors or substrates of CYP2D6 (i.e., quinidine, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]) may increase the plasma concentration of doxepin when administered concomitantly. The extent of interaction depends on the variability of effect on CYP2D6. The clinical significance of this interaction with doxepin has not been systematically evaluated. MAO Inhibitors Serious side effects and even death have been reported following the concomitant use of certain drugs with MAO inhibitors. Therefore, MAO inhibitors should be discontinued at least two weeks prior to the cautious initiation of therapy with doxepin HCl. The exact length of time may vary and is dependent upon the particular MAO inhibitor being used, the length of time it has been administered, and the dosage involved. Cimetidine Cimetidine has been reported to produce clinically significant fluctuations in steady-state serum concentrations of various tricyclic antidepressants. Serious anticholinergic symptoms (i.e., severe dry mouth, urinary retention and blurred vision) have been associated with elevations in the serum levels of tricyclic antidepressants when cimetidine therapy is initiated. Additionally, higher than expected tricyclic antidepressant levels have been observed when they are begun in patients already taking cimetidine. In patients who have been reported to be well controlled on tricyclic antidepressants receiving concurrent cimetidine therapy, discontinuation of cimetidine has been reported to decrease established steady-state serum tricyclic antidepressant levels and compromise their therapeutic effects. Alcohol It should be borne in mind that alcohol ingestion may increase the danger inherent in any intentional or unintentional doxepin HCl overdosage. This is especially important in patients who may use alcohol excessively. Tolazamide A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide (1 gm/day) 11 days after the addition of doxepin (75 mg/day). Drowsiness Since drowsiness may occur with the use of this drug, patients should be warned of the possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking the drug. Patients should also be cautioned that their response to alcohol may be potentiated. Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of doxepin HCl and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS-Geriatric Use). Suicide Since suicide is an inherent risk in any depressed patient and may remain so until significant improvement has occurred, patients should be closely supervised during the early course of therapy. Prescriptions should be written for the smallest feasible amount. Psychosis Should increased symptoms of psychosis or shift to manic symptomatology occur, it may be necessary to reduce dosage or add a major tranquilizer dosage regimen. Pediatric Use: Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established (see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS - Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk). Anyone considering the use of doxepin HCl in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6: The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population (about 7-10% of Caucasians are so-called "poor metabolizers"); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) when given usual doses. Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6, the increase in plasma concentration may be small, or quite large (8-fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA). In addition, certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers. An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy. The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme (quinidine; cimetidine) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 (many other antidepressants, phenothiazines, and the Type 1C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide). While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), e.g., fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine, inhibit P450 2D6, they may vary in the extent of inhibition. The extent to which SSRI-TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the co-administration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other. Of particular importance, sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine, given the long half-life of the parent and active metabolite (at least 5 weeks may be necessary). Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug. Furthermore, whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co-therapy, an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required. It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be co-administered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6. Doxepin is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 (with CYP1A2 & CYP3A4 as minor pathways). Inihibitors or substrates of CYP2D6 (i.e., quinidine, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]) may increase the plasma concentration of doxepin when administered concomitantly. The extent of interaction depends on the variability of effect on CYP2D6. The clinical significance of this interaction with doxepin has not been systematically evaluated. MAO Inhibitors Serious side effects and even death have been reported following the concomitant use of certain drugs with MAO inhibitors. Therefore, MAO inhibitors should be discontinued at least two weeks prior to the cautious initiation of therapy with doxepin HCl. The exact length of time may vary and is dependent upon the particular MAO inhibitor being used, the length of time it has been administered, and the dosage involved. Cimetidine Cimetidine has been reported to produce clinically significant fluctuations in steady-state serum concentrations of various tricyclic antidepressants. Serious anticholinergic symptoms (i.e., severe dry mouth, urinary retention and blurred vision) have been associated with elevations in the serum levels of tricyclic antidepressants when cimetidine therapy is initiated. Additionally, higher than expected tricyclic antidepressant levels have been observed when they are begun in patients already taking cimetidine. In patients who have been reported to be well controlled on tricyclic antidepressants receiving concurrent cimetidine therapy, discontinuation of cimetidine has been reported to decrease established steady-state serum tricyclic antidepressant levels and compromise their therapeutic effects. Alcohol It should be borne in mind that alcohol ingestion may increase the danger inherent in any intentional or unintentional doxepin HCl overdosage. This is especially important in patients who may use alcohol excessively. Tolazamide A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide (1 gm/day) 11 days after the addition of doxepin (75 mg/day). Drowsiness Since drowsiness may occur with the use of this drug, patients should be warned of the possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking the drug. Patients should also be cautioned that their response to alcohol may be potentiated. Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of doxepin HCl and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS-Geriatric Use). Suicide Since suicide is an inherent risk in any depressed patient and may remain so until significant improvement has occurred, patients should be closely supervised during the early course of therapy. Prescriptions should be written for the smallest feasible amount. Psychosis Should increased symptoms of psychosis or shift to manic symptomatology occur, it may be necessary to reduce dosage or add a major tranquilizer dosage regimen."$$
