"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Bleeding: Serious and potentially fatal bleeding. Promptly evaluate signs and symptoms of blood loss (5.2) Mechanical heart valves or moderate to severe mitral stenosis: Use is not recommended (5.5) 5.1 Reduced Efficacy in Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation Patients with CrCL > 95 mL/min SAVAYSA should not be used in patients with CrCL > 95 mL/min. In the randomized ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 study, NVAF patients with CrCL > 95 mL/min had an increased rate of ischemic stroke with SAVAYSA 60 mg daily compared to patients treated with warfarin. In these patients another anticoagulant should be used [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 5.2 Increased Risk of Stroke with Discontinuation of SAVAYSA in Patients with Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation Premature discontinuation of any oral anticoagulant in the absence of adequate alternative anticoagulation increases the risk of ischemic events. If SAVAYSA is discontinued for a reason other than pathological bleeding or completion of a course of therapy, consider coverage with another anticoagulant as described in the transition guidance [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 5.3 Risk of Bleeding SAVAYSA increases the risk of bleeding and can cause serious and potentially fatal bleeding. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss. Discontinue SAVAYSA in patients with active pathological bleeding. Concomitant use of drugs affecting hemostasis may increase the risk of bleeding. These include aspirin and other antiplatelet agents, other antithrombotic agents, fibrinolytic therapy, and chronic use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. There is no established way to reverse the anticoagulant effects of SAVAYSA, which can be expected to persist for approximately 24 hours after the last dose. The anticoagulant effect of SAVAYSA cannot be reliably monitored with standard laboratory testing. A specific reversal agent for edoxaban is not available. Hemodialysis does not significantly contribute to edoxaban clearance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Protamine sulfate, vitamin K, and tranexamic acid are not expected to reverse the anticoagulant activity of SAVAYSA. 5.4 Spinal/Epidural Anesthesia or Puncture When neuraxial anesthesia (spinal/epidural anesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk of developing an epidural or spinal hematoma, which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis. The risk of these events may be increased by the postoperative use of indwelling epidural catheters or the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting hemostasis. Indwelling epidural or intrathecal catheters should not be removed earlier than 12 hours after the last administration of SAVAYSA. The next dose of SAVAYSA should not be administered earlier than 2 hours after the removal of the catheter. The risk may also be increased by traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Monitor patients frequently for signs and symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g., numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel, or bladder dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. 5.5 Patients with Mechanical Heart Valves or Moderate to Severe Mitral Stenosis The safety and efficacy of SAVAYSA has not been studied in patients with mechanical heart valves or moderate to severe mitral stenosis. The use of SAVAYSA is not recommended in these patients [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Anticoagulants: Avoid concomitant use (7.1) Rifampin: Avoid concomitant use (7.2) 7.1 Anticoagulants, Antiplatelets, and Thrombolytics Co-administration of anticoagulants, antiplatelet drugs, and thrombolytics may increase the risk of bleeding. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with anticoagulants, aspirin, other platelet aggregation inhibitors, and/or NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Long-term concomitant treatment with SAVAYSA and other anticoagulants is not recommended because of increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Short term co-administration may be needed for patients transitioning to or from SAVAYSA [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. In clinical studies with SAVAYSA concomitant use of aspirin (low dose <= 100 mg/day) or thienopyridines, and NSAIDs was permitted and resulted in increased rates of Clinically Relevant Bleeding. Carefully monitor for bleeding in patients who require chronic treatment with low dose aspirin and/or NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 P-gp Inducers Avoid the concomitant use of SAVAYSA with rifampin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 P-gp Inhibitors Treatment of NVAF Based on clinical experience from the ENGAGE AF-TIMI 48 study, dose reduction in patients concomitantly receiving P-gp inhibitors resulted in edoxaban blood levels that were lower than in patients who were given the full dose. Consequently, no dose reduction is recommended for concomitant P-gp inhibitor use [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Treatment of Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]"$$
"warnings_and_cautions": [$$
