"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Lactic acidosis: Warn against excessive alcohol use. SYNJARDY is not recommended in hepatic impairment or hypoxic states and is contraindicated in renal impairment. Ensure normal renal function before initiating and at least annually thereafter. (5.1, 5.4, 5.6, 5.10, 5.11) Hypotension: Before initiating SYNJARDY assess and correct volume status in patients with renal impairment, the elderly, in patients with low systolic blood pressure, and in patients on diuretics. Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy. (5.2) Ketoacidosis: Assess patients who present with signs and symptoms of metabolic acidosis for ketoacidosis, regardless of blood glucose level. If suspected, discontinue SYNJARDY, evaluate and treat promptly. Before initiating SYNJARDY, consider risk factors for ketoacidosis. Patients on SYNJARDY may require monitoring and temporary discontinuation of therapy in clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis. (5.3) Impairment in renal function: Monitor renal function during therapy. (5.4) Radiological studies and surgical procedures: Temporarily discontinue SYNJARDY in patients undergoing radiologic studies with intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials or any surgical procedures necessitating restricted intake of food and fluids. (5.4) Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis: Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly, if indicated (5.5) Hypoglycemia: Consider lowering the dose of insulin secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when initiating SYNJARDY (5.7) Genital mycotic infections: Monitor and treat as appropriate (5.8) Vitamin B12 deficiency: Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels. Monitor hematologic parameters annually. (5.9) Increased LDL-C: Monitor and treat as appropriate (5.12) Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with SYNJARDY. (5.13) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis Lactic acidosis is a serious, metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with SYNJARDY and is fatal in approximately 50% of cases. Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions, including diabetes mellitus, and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia. Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels (>5 mmol/L), decreased blood pH, electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap, and an increased lactate/pyruvate ratio. When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis, metformin plasma levels of >5 \\302\\265g/mL are generally found. The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin is approximately 0.03 cases/1000 patient-years, (with approximately 0.015 fatal cases/1000 patient-years). In more than 20,000 patient-years exposure to metformin in clinical trials, there were no reports of lactic acidosis. Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal impairment, including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion, often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical/surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications. Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management, particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia due to unstable or acute failure, are at increased risk of lactic acidosis. The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment and the patient's age. The risk of lactic acidosis may, therefore, be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking metformin. In particular, treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function. Metformin treatment should not be initiated in any patient unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced. In addition, metformin should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia, dehydration, or sepsis. Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate, metformin should be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic impairment. Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake when taking metformin, since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin on lactate metabolism. In addition, metformin should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure necessitating restricted intake of food or fluids. Use of topiramate, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, in epilepsy and migraine prophylaxis may cause dose-dependent metabolic acidosis and may exacerbate the risk of metformin-induced lactic acidosis [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The onset of lactic acidosis is often subtle, and accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, myalgias, respiratory distress, increasing somnolence, and nonspecific abdominal distress. More severe acidosis may be associated with signs such as hypothermia, hypotension, and resistant bradyarrhythmias. Patients should be educated to recognize and promptly report these symptoms. If present, SYNJARDY should be discontinued until lactic acidosis is ruled out. Gastrointestinal symptoms, which are commonly reported during initiation of metformin therapy are less frequently observed in subjects on a chronic, stable, dose of metformin. Gastrointestinal symptoms in subjects on chronic, stable, dose of metformin could be caused by lactic acidosis or other serious disease. To rule out lactic acidosis, serum electrolytes, ketones, blood glucose, blood pH, lactate levels, and blood metformin levels may be useful. Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol/L in patients taking metformin do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be due to other mechanisms, such as poorly-controlled diabetes or obesity, vigorous physical activity, or technical problems in sample handling. Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis (ketonuria and ketonemia). Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting. In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking metformin, the drug should be discontinued immediately and supportive measures promptly instituted. Metformin is dialyzable (clearance of up to 170 mL/min under good hemodynamic conditions) and prompt hemodialysis is recommended to remove the accumulated metformin and correct the metabolic acidosis. Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery [see Boxed Warning and Contraindications (4)]. 5.2 Hypotension Empagliflozin causes intravascular volume contraction. Symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiating empagliflozin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] particularly in patients with renal impairment, the elderly, in patients with low systolic blood pressure, and in patients on diuretics. Before initiating SYNJARDY, assess for volume contraction and correct volume status if indicated. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension after initiating therapy and increase monitoring in clinical situations where volume contraction is expected [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 5.3 Ketoacidosis Reports of ketoacidosis, a serious life-threatening condition requiring urgent hospitalization have been identified in postmarketing surveillance in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving sodium glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, including empagliflozin. SYNJARDY is not indicated for the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus [see Indications and Usage (1)]. Patients treated with SYNJARDY who present with signs and symptoms consistent with severe metabolic acidosis should be assessed for ketoacidosis regardless of presenting blood glucose levels, as ketoacidosis associated with SYNJARDY may be present even if blood glucose levels are less than 250 mg/dL. If ketoacidosis is suspected, SYNJARDY should be discontinued, patient should be evaluated, and prompt treatment should be instituted. Treatment of ketoacidosis may require insulin, fluid and carbohydrate replacement. In many of the postmarketing reports, and particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes, the presence of ketoacidosis was not immediately recognized and institution of treatment was delayed because presenting blood glucose levels were below those typically expected for diabetic ketoacidosis (often less than 250 mg/dL). Signs and symptoms at presentation were consistent with dehydration and severe metabolic acidosis and included nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, generalized malaise, and shortness of breath. In some but not all cases, factors predisposing to ketoacidosis such as insulin dose reduction, acute febrile illness, reduced caloric intake due to illness or surgery, pancreatic disorders suggesting insulin deficiency (e.g., type 1 diabetes, history of pancreatitis or pancreatic surgery), and alcohol abuse were identified. Before initiating SYNJARDY, consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to ketoacidosis including pancreatic insulin deficiency from any cause, caloric restriction, and alcohol abuse. In patients treated with SYNJARDY consider monitoring for ketoacidosis and temporarily discontinuing SYNJARDY in clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis (e.g., prolonged fasting due to acute illness or surgery). 5.4 Impairment in Renal Function Empagliflozin increases serum creatinine and decreases eGFR [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The risk of impaired renal function with empagliflozin is increased in elderly patients and patients with moderate renal impairment. Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney. The risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment. Therefore, SYNJARDY is contraindicated in patients with renal impairment (serum creatinine levels greater than or equal to 1.5 mg/dL for males or 1.4 mg/dL for females, or eGFR less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m2) [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Before initiation of therapy with SYNJARDY and at least annually thereafter, renal function should be assessed and verified to be normal. In patients in whom development of renal impairment is anticipated (e.g., elderly), renal function should be assessed more frequently and SYNJARDY discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present (serum creatinine levels greater than or equal to 1.5 mg/dL for males or 1.4 mg/dL for females, or eGFR less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m2). Use of concomitant medications that may affect renal function or metformin disposition: Concomitant medication(s) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or interfere with the disposition of metformin should be used with caution [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Radiological studies and surgical procedures: Radiologic studies involving the use of intravascular iodinated contrast materials (e.g., intravenous urogram, intravenous cholangiography, angiography, and computed tomography) can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin. Therefore, in patients in whom any such study is planned, SYNJARDY should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure, and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been confirmed to be normal. SYNJARDY should be temporarily discontinued for any surgical procedure (except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids) and should not be restarted until the patient's oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal. 5.5 Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis There have been postmarketing reports of serious urinary tract infections including urosepsis and pyelonephritis requiring hospitalization in patients receiving SGLT2 inhibitors, including empagliflozin. Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors increases the risk for urinary tract infections. Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly, if indicated [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.6 Impaired Hepatic Function Because impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis with metformin therapy, SYNJARDY should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.7 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues Empagliflozin Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia. The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when empagliflozin is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Therefore, a lower dose of the insulin secretagogue or insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with SYNJARDY. Metformin hydrochloride Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use, but could occur when caloric intake is deficient, when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation, or during concomitant use with other glucose-lowering agents (such as SUs and insulin) or ethanol. Elderly, debilitated, or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects. Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly, and in people who are taking \\316\\262-adrenergic blocking drugs. Monitor for a need to lower the dose of SYNJARDY to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia in these patients. 5.8 Genital Mycotic Infections Empagliflozin increases the risk for genital mycotic infections [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Patients with a history of chronic or recurrent genital mycotic infections were more likely to develop mycotic genital infections. Monitor and treat as appropriate. 5.9 Vitamin B12 Levels In controlled, 29-week clinical trials of metformin, a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels, without clinical manifestations, was observed in approximately 7% of metformin-treated patients. Such decrease, possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12-intrinsic factor complex, is, however, very rarely associated with anemia or neurologic manifestations due to the short duration (<1 year) of the clinical trials. This risk may be more relevant to patients receiving long-term treatment with metformin, and adverse hematologic and neurologic reactions have been reported postmarketing. The decrease in vitamin B12 levels appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation. Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on SYNJARDY and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed. Certain individuals (those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels. In these patients, routine serum vitamin B12 measurement at 2- to 3-year intervals may be useful. 5.10 Alcohol Intake Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Patients, therefore, should be warned against excessive alcohol intake while receiving SYNJARDY [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.11 Hypoxic States Cardiovascular collapse (shock) from whatever cause (e.g., acute congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia) have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia. When such events occur in patients on SYNJARDY therapy, the drug should be promptly discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.12 Increased Low-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDL-C) Increases in LDL-C can occur with empagliflozin. Monitor and treat as appropriate. 5.13 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with SYNJARDY, or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cationic drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion: May reduce metformin elimination. Use with caution. (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions with Empagliflozin Diuretics Coadministration of empagliflozin with diuretics resulted in increased urine volume and frequency of voids, which might enhance the potential for volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Insulin or Insulin Secretagogues Coadministration of empagliflozin with insulin or insulin secretagogues increases the risk for hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Positive Urine Glucose Test Monitoring glycemic control with urine glucose tests is not recommended in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors as SGLT2 inhibitors increase urinary glucose excretion and will lead to positive urine glucose tests. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) Assay Monitoring glycemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended as measurements of 1,5-AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use alternative methods to monitor glycemic control. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Metformin Hydrochloride Cationic Drugs Cationic drugs (e.g., amiloride, digoxin, morphine, procainamide, quinidine, quinine, ranitidine, triamterene, trimethoprim, or vancomycin) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Although such interactions remain theoretical (except for cimetidine), careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of SYNJARDY and/or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently decrease serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs may induce metabolic acidosis. Use these drugs with caution in patients treated with SYNJARDY, as the risk of lactic acidosis may increase [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving SYNJARDY, the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving SYNJARDY, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia."$$
"warnings_and_cautions": [$$
