
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Acute toxic effects are usually extensions of the therapeutic actions of the drug and are most often due to overdosage. Excessive doses may cause a sharp rise in blood pressure sufficient to produce cerebral hemorrhage. Other effects (usually transient) include headache, restlessness, anxiety, tension, tremor, weakness, dizziness, confusion, delirium hallucinations, pallor, respiratory difficulty, palpitation, sweating, nausea or vomiting. Repeated injections may cause contraction of the bladder sphincter and interfere with voluntary urination. The possibility of urinary retention, especially in the elderly male, should be kept in mind."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS With large doses of ephedrine sulfate most patients will experience nervousness, insomnia, vertigo, headache, tachycardia, palpitation and sweating. Some patients have nausea, vomiting and anorexia. Vesical sphincter spasm may occur and result in difficult and painful urination. Urinary retention may develop in males with prostatism. Precordial pain and cardiac arrhythmias may occur following administration of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection, USP."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS With large doses of ephedrine sulfate most patients will experience nervousness, insomnia, vertigo, headache, tachycardia, palpitation and sweating. Some patients have nausea, vomiting and anorexia. Vesical sphincter spasm may occur and result in difficult and painful urination. Urinary retention may develop in males with prostatism. Precordial pain and cardiac arrhythmias may occur following administration of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection, USP"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS With large doses of ephedrine sulfate most patients will experience nervousness, insomnia, vertigo, headache, tachycardia, palpitation and sweating. Some patients have nausea, vomiting and anorexia. Vesical sphincter spasm may occur and result in difficult and painful urination. Urinary retention may develop in males with prostatism. Primordial pain and cardiac arrhythmias may occur following administration of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection, USP"$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS - Concurrent use of ephedrine sulfate with general anesthetics, especially cyclopropane or halogenated hydrocarbons or digitalis glycosides may cause cardiac arrhythmias, since these medications may sensitize the myocardium to the effects of ephedrine sulfate. Therapeutic doses of ephedrine sulfate can inhibit the hypotensive effect of guanethidine, bethanidine, and debrisoquin by displacing the adrenergic blockers from their site of action in the sympathetic neurons. The effect in man is seen as a relative or a complete blockade of the antihypertensive drug by a sudden rise in blood pressure. Concomitant use of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection, USP and oxytocics may cause severe hypotension. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors may potentiate the pressor effect of ephedrine sulfate, possibly resulting in a hypertensive crisis. Ephedrine Sulfate Injection, USP should not be administered during or within 14 days following the administration of MAO inhibitors."$$
