
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Eprosartan mesylate has been evaluated for safety in more than 3,300 healthy volunteers and patients worldwide, including more than 1,460 patients treated for more than 6 months, and more than 980 patients treated for one year or longer. Eprosartan was well tolerated at doses up to 1200 mg daily. Most adverse events were of mild or moderate severity and did not require discontinuation of therapy. The overall incidence of adverse experiences and the incidences of specific adverse events reported with eprosartan were similar to placebo. Adverse experiences were similar in patients regardless of age, gender, or race. Adverse experiences were not dose-related. In placebo-controlled clinical trials, about 4% of 1,202 patients treated with eprosartan mesylate discontinued therapy due to clinical adverse experiences, compared to 6.5% of 352 patients given placebo. Adverse Events Occurring at an Incidence of 1% or More Among Eprosartan-treated Patients The following table lists adverse events that occurred at an incidence of 1% or more among eprosartan-treated patients who participated in placebo-controlled trials of 8 to 13 weeks' duration, using doses of 25 mg to 400 mg twice daily, and 400 mg to 1200 mg once daily. The overall incidence of adverse events reported with eprosartan mesylate (54.4%) was similar to placebo (52.8%). Table 1. Adverse Events Reported by >= 1% of Patients Receiving Eprosartan Mesylate and Were More Frequent on Eprosartan than Placebo Event Eprosartan (n = 1,202) % Placebo (n = 352) % Body as a Whole Infection viral 2 1 Injury 2 1 Fatigue 2 1 Gastrointestinal Abdominal pain 2 1 Metabolic and Nutritional Hypertriglyceridemia 1 0 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 2 1 Nervous System Depression 1 0 Respiratory Upper respiratory tract infection 8 5 Rhinitis 4 3 Pharyngitis 4 3 Coughing 4 3 Urogenital Urinary tract infection 1 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater in patients treated with eprosartan, but were as, or more, frequent in the placebo group: headache, myalgia, dizziness, sinusitis, diarrhea, bronchitis, dependent edema, dyspepsia, and chest pain. Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving eprosartan. Angioedema has been reported with other angiotensin II antagonists. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. In addition to the adverse events above, potentially important events that occurred in at least two patients/subjects exposed to eprosartan or other adverse events that occurred in < 1% of patients in clinical studies are listed below. It cannot be determined whether events were causally related to eprosartan: Body as a Whole: alcohol intolerance, asthenia, substernal chest pain, peripheral edema, fatigue, fever, hot flushes, influenza-like symptoms, malaise, rigors, pain; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, bradycardia, abnormal ECG, specific abnormal ECG, extrasystoles, atrial fibrillation, hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension), tachycardia, palpitations; Gastrointestinal: anorexia, constipation, dry mouth, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gingivitis, nausea, periodontitis, toothache, vomiting; Hematologic: anemia, purpura; Liver and Biliary: increased SGOT, increased SGPT; Metabolic and Nutritional: increased creatine phosphokinase, diabetes mellitus, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia; Musculoskeletal: arthritis, aggravated arthritis, arthrosis, skeletal pain, tendinitis, back pain; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, ataxia, insomnia, migraine, neuritis, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Resistance Mechanism: herpes simplex, otitis externa, otitis media, upper respiratory tract infection; Respiratory: asthma, epistaxis; Skin and Appendages: eczema, furunculosis, pruritus, rash, maculopapular rash, increased sweating; Special Senses: conjunctivitis, abnormal vision, xerophthalmia, tinnitus; Urinary: albuminuria, cystitis, hematuria, micturition frequency, polyuria, renal calculus, urinary incontinence; Vascular: leg cramps, peripheral ischemia. Laboratory Test Findings In placebo-controlled studies, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of eprosartan mesylate. Patients were rarely withdrawn from eprosartan mesylate because of laboratory test results. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen Minor elevations in creatinine and in BUN occurred in 0.6% and 1.3%, respectively, of patients taking eprosartan mesylate and 0.9% and 0.3%, respectively, of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Two patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for elevations in serum creatinine and BUN, and three additional patients were withdrawn for increases in serum creatinine. Liver Function Tests Minor elevations of ALAT, ASAT, and alkaline phosphatase occurred for comparable percentages of patients taking eprosartan mesylate or placebo in controlled clinical trials. An elevated ALAT of > 3.5 x ULN occurred in 0.1% of patients taking eprosartan mesylate (one patient) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Four patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for an elevation in liver function tests. Hemoglobin A greater than 20% decrease in hemoglobin was observed in 0.1% of patients taking eprosartan mesylate (one patient) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Two patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for anemia. Leukopenia A WBC count of <= 3 x 103/mm3 occurred in 0.3% of patients taking eprosartan mesylate and in 0.3% of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. One patient was withdrawn from clinical trials for leukopenia. Neutropenia A neutrophil count of <= 1.5 x 103/mm3 occurred in 1.3% of patients taking eprosartan mesylate and in 1.4% of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. No patient was withdrawn from any clinical trial for neutropenia. Thrombocytopenia A platelet count of <= 100 x 109/L occurred in 0.3% of patients taking eprosartan mesylate (one patient) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Four patients receiving eprosartan mesylate in clinical trials were withdrawn for thrombocytopenia. In one case, thrombocytopenia was present prior to dosing with eprosartan mesylate. Serum Potassium A potassium value of >= 5.6 mmol/L occurred in 0.9% of patients taking eprosartan mesylate and 0.3% of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. One patient was withdrawn from clinical trials for hyperkalemia and three for hypokalemia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS TEVETEN(R) HCT 600/12.5 mg has been evaluated for safety in 268 patients in double-blind, controlled clinical trials. Most of these patients were treated with TEVETEN(R) HCT 600/12.5 mg for 29 to 60 days. Eprosartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy has been evaluated for safety in 890 patients in open-label, long-term clinical trials. Approximately 50% of these patients were treated with eprosartan/hydrochlorothiazide for over 2 years. Eprosartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy was well tolerated. Most adverse events were of mild or moderate severity and did not require discontinuation of therapy. Adverse experiences were similar in patients regardless of age, gender, or race. In the controlled clinical trials, about 3% of the 268 patients treated with TEVETEN(R) HCT 600/12.5 mg discontinued therapy due to clinical adverse experiences. Adverse Events Occurring at an Incidence of Greater Than 3% Among TEVETEN(R) HCT Treated Patients The following table lists adverse events that occurred at an incidence of >3% among TEVETEN(R) HCT 600/12.5 mg- or monotherapy-treated patients who participated in the controlled clinical trials. Of the 268 patients who received TEVETEN(R) HCT 600/12.5 mg during the double-blind treatment period in the controlled trials, 110 patients were reported to have adverse events. Table 1 Incidence of Adverse Events >3% During the Double-Blind Treatment Period by Preferred Term and Treatment Grouping: Controlled Studies Placebo (N=246) Eprosartan 600 mg (N=275) HCTZ 12.5 mg (N=117) HCTZ 25 mg (N=52) Eprosartan 600 mg/HCTZ 12.5 mg (N=268) Preferred Term n (%) n (%) n (%) n (%) n (%) Dizziness 4 (1.6) 5 (1.8) 2 (1.7) 2 (3.8) 11 (4.1) Headache 22 (8.9) 10 (3.6) 4 (3.4) 3 (5.8) 9 (3.4) Back pain 6 (2.4) 7 (2.5) 2 (1.7) 2 (3.8) 7 (2.6) Fatigue 6 (2.4) 5 (1.8) 1 (0.9) 2 (3.8) 5 (1.9) Myalgia 8 (3.3) 2 (0.7) 3 (2.6) 0 (0.0) 1 (0.4) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8 (3.3) 2 (0.7) 0 (0.0) 2 (3.8) 1 (0.4) Sinusitis 4 (1.6) 1 (0.4) 0 (0.0) 2 (3.8) 0 (0.0) Viral Infection 4 (1.6) 0 (0.0) 2 (1.7) 2 (3.8) 0 (0.0) The adverse events reported in over 600 patients that received TEVETEN(R)/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy for at least 1 year in the open-label, long-term clinical trials were comparable to those reported in the controlled trials. Eprosartan Mesylate: In addition to the adverse events above, potentially important adverse events that are included in the current labeling for TEVETEN(R) monotherapy are listed below. Most of these adverse events occurred in <1% of patients, or were as frequent or more frequent in the placebo group. It is not known if these events were related to eprosartan usage: Body as a Whole: alcohol intolerance, asthenia, substernal chest pain, dependent edema, peripheral edema, facial edema, fatigue, fever, hot flushes, influenza-like symptoms, injury, malaise, pain, rigors, viral infection; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, bradycardia, abnormal ECG, specific abnormal ECG, extrasystoles, atrial fibrillation, hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension), tachycardia, palpitations; Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, esophagitis, flatulence, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gingivitis, nausea, periodontitis, toothache, vomiting; Hematologic: anemia, purpura; Liver and Biliary: increased SGOT, increased SGPT; Metabolic and Nutritional: increased creatine phosphokinase, diabetes mellitus, glycosuria, gout, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypertriglyceridemia; Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, aggravated arthritis, arthrosis, skeletal pain, tendinitis; Nervous System/Psychiatric : anxiety, ataxia, depression, dizziness, insomnia, migraine, neuritis, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Resistance Mechanism: herpes simplex, otitis externa, otitis media, upper respiratory tract infection; Respiratory: asthma, bronchitis, coughing, epistaxis, pharyngitis, rhinitis; Skin and Appendages: eczema, furunculosis, pruritus, rash, maculopapular rash, increased sweating; Special Senses: conjunctivitis, abnormal vision, xerophthalmia, tinnitus; Urinary: albuminuria, cystitis, hematuria, micturition frequency, polyuria, renal calculus, urinary incontinence, urinary tract infection; Vascular: leg cramps, peripheral ischemia. Hydrochlorothiazide: Other adverse events that have been reported for hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Cardiovascular: hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension); Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), diarrhea, vomiting, sialadenitis, cramping, constipation, gastric irritation, nausea, anorexia; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: anaphylactic reactions, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), respiratory distress including pneumonitis, and pulmonary edema, photosensitivity, fever, urticaria, rash, purpura; Metabolic: electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and hypochloremic alkalosis, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: vertigo, paresthesias, restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, azotemia; Skin: erythema multiform, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis, including toxic epidermal necrolysis, alopecia; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia; Urogenital: impotence. Laboratory Test Findings: In placebo-controlled studies, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of TEVETEN(R). Patients were rarely withdrawn from TEVETEN(R) because of laboratory test results. Laboratory test findings that have been reported for TEVETEN(R) are listed below: Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor elevations in creatinine and in BUN occurred in 0.6% and 1.3%, respectively, of patients taking TEVETEN(R) and 0.9% and 0.3%, respectively, of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Two patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for elevations in serum creatinine and BUN, and three additional patients were withdrawn for increases in serum creatinine. Liver Function Tests: Minor elevations of ALAT, ASAT, and alkaline phosphatase occurred for comparable percentages of patients taking TEVETEN(R) or placebo in controlled clinical trials. An elevated ALAT of >3.5 x ULN occurred in 0.1% of patients taking TEVETEN(R) (one patient) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Four patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for an elevation in liver function tests. Hemoglobin: A greater than 20% decrease in hemoglobin was observed in 0.1% of patients taking TEVETEN(R) (one patient) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Two patients were withdrawn from clinical trials for anemia. Leukopenia: A WBC count of <=3.0 x 103/mm3 occurred in 0.3% of patients taking TEVETEN(R) and in 0.3% of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. One patient was withdrawn from clinical trials for leukopenia. Neutropenia: A neutrophil count of <=1.5 x 103/mm3 occurred in 1.3% of patients taking TEVETEN(R) and in 1.4% of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. No patient was withdrawn from any clinical trials for neutropenia. Thrombocytopenia: A platelet count of <=100 x 109/L occurred in 0.3% of patients taking TEVETEN(R) (one patient) and in no patient given placebo in controlled clinical trials. Four patients receiving TEVETEN(R) in clinical trials were withdrawn for thrombocytopenia. In one case, thrombocytopenia was present prior to dosing with TEVETEN(R). Serum Potassium: A potassium value of >=5.6 mmol/L occurred in 0.9% of patients taking TEVETEN(R) and 0.3% of patients given placebo in controlled clinical trials. One patient was withdrawn from clinical trials for hyperkalemia and three for hypokalemia. Additional Information: Among the adverse events reported for patients receiving either TEVETEN(R) monotherapy or TEVETEN(R)/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy in the TEVETEN(R) HCT clinical trials, some adverse events are not included in the current labeling for either TEVETEN(R) or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. The adverse events which are not currently included in the labeling for TEVETEN(R) or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy include the following: angioedema, bilirubinemia, blood urea nitrogen increased, edema periorbital, eosinophilia, and NPN increased. The majority of these adverse events were reported in the open-label, long-term trials and were reported in small numbers of patients receiving TEVETEN(R) alone or TEVETEN(R) in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. All of these adverse events were either not reported in patients receiving TEVETEN(R) monotherapy or combination therapy with hydrochlorothiazide during the double-blind period of the controlled trials, or were reported at an incidence of <=1% or in only one patient per treatment group in the controlled trials. The overall safety profile of the TEVETEN(R)/hydrochlorothiazide combination treatment is as expected based on the safety profile of each of the components and what is generally known about the patient population. OVERDOSAGE Eprosartan Mesylate: Limited data are available regarding overdosage. Appropriate symptomatic and supportive therapy should be given if overdosage should occur. There was no mortality in rats and mice receiving oral doses of up to 3000 mg eprosartan/kg and in dogs receiving oral doses of up to 1000 mg eprosartan/kg. Hydrochlorothiazide: The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion (hypokalemia, hypochloremia, and hyponatremia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. If digitalis has also been administered, hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established. The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g/kg in both mice and rats."$$
"Drug Interactions Concomitant administration of eprosartan and digoxin had no effect on single oral-dose digoxin pharmacokinetics. Concomitant administration of eprosartan and warfarin had no effect on steady-state prothrombin time ratios (INR) in healthy volunteers. Concomitant administration of eprosartan and glyburide in diabetic patients did not affect 24-hour plasma glucose profiles. Eprosartan pharmacokinetics were not affected by concomitant administration of ranitidine. Eprosartan did not inhibit human cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP1A, 2A6, 2C9/8, 2C19, 2D6, 2E and 3A in vitro. Eprosartan is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system; eprosartan steady-state concentrations were not affected by concomitant administration of ketoconazole or fluconazole, potent inhibitors of CYP3A and 2C9, respectively.",$$
"Drug Interactions Eprosartan Mesylate: Eprosartan has been shown to have no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin and the pharmacodynamics of warfarin and glyburide. Thus, no dosing adjustments are necessary during concomitant use with these agents. Because eprosartan is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system, inhibitors of CYP450 enzyme would not be expected to affect its metabolism, and ketoconazole and fluconazole, potent inhibitors of CYP3A and 2C9, respectively, have been shown to have no effect on eprosartan pharmacokinetics. Ranitidine also has no effect on eprosartan pharmacokinetics. Eprosartan (up to 400 mg b.i.d. or 800 mg q.d.) doses have been safely used concomitantly with a thiazide diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide). Eprosartan doses of up to 300 mg b.i.d. have been safely used concomitantly with sustained-release calcium channel blockers (sustained-release nifedipine) with no clinically significant adverse interactions. As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements ). Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including eprosartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving eprosartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including eprosartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide: When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drug (oral agents and insulin) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% and 43%, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH - intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium - should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with TEVETEN(R) HCT. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs - in some patients, the administration of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when TEVETEN(R) HCT and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained."$$
