
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. Renal: Mental retardation. CNS: Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Soft Tissues: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism) vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Skeletal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Gastrointestinal: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss. Metabolic:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal : Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS : Mental retardation. Soft Tissues : Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal : Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism) vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal : Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic : Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS: Mental retardation. Soft Tissues: Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism) vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS: Mental retardation. Soft Tissues: Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism), vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS: Mental retardation. Soft Tissues:Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism) vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal:Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS:Mental retardation. Soft Tissues:Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal:Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism) vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal:Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic:Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS: Mental retardation. Soft Tissues: Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism), vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss. AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993; email drugsafety@avkare.com ; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS: Mental retardation. Soft Tissues: Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism), vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss.G"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS: Mental retardation. Soft Tissues: Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism), vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Banner at 1866-231-1749 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypervitaminosis D is characterized by effects on the following organ system: Renal: Impairment of renal function with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypercalciuria, reversible azotemia, hypertension, nephrocalcinosis, generalized vascular calcification, or irreversible renal insufficiency which may result in death. CNS: Mental retardation. Soft Tissues: Widespread calcification of the soft tissues, including the heart, blood vessels, renal tubules, and lungs. Skeletal: Bone demineralization (osteoporosis) in adults occurs concomitantly. Decline in the average rate of linear growth and increased mineralization of bones in infants and children (dwarfism), vague aches, stiffness, and weakness. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, anorexia, constipation. Metabolic: Mild acidosis, anemia, weight loss. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537, or drug.safety@tevapharm.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or"$$
"Drug Interactions Mineral oil interferes with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D preparations. Administration of thiazide diuretics to hypoparathyroid patients who are concurrently being treated with DRISDOL may cause hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Mineral oil interferes with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D preparations. Administration of thiazide diuretics to hypoparathyroid patients who are concurrently being treated with ergocalciferol capsules may cause hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Mineral oil interferes with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D preparations. Administration of thiazide diuretics to hypoparathyroid patients who are concurrently being treated with Ergocalciferol Capsules, USP may cause hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Mineral oil interferes with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D preparations. Administration of thiazide diuretics to hypoparathyroid patients who are concurrently being treated with ergocalciferol may cause hypercalcemia."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Mineral oil interferes with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D preparations. Administration of thiazide diuretics to hypoparathyroid patients who are concurrently being treated with ergocalciferol may cause hypercalcemia."$$
