"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and cardiac failure: Monitor for signs and symptoms of cardiovascular adverse effects. Reduce or discontinue use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.10) -Risk of exacerbating reactive airway disease (5.5) -Diabetes mellitus: Increases the effect of hypoglycemic agents and masks hypoglycemic tachycardia (5.6) -Risk of unopposed alpha-agonism and severe hypertension in untreated pheochromocytoma (5.9) -Risk of myocardial ischemia when abruptly discontinued in patients with coronary artery disease (5.12, 5.15) 5.1 Hypotension Hypotension can occur at any dose but is dose-related. Patients with hemodynamic compromise or on interacting medications are at particular risk. Severe reactions may include loss of consciousness, cardiac arrest, and death. For control of ventricular heart rate, maintenance doses greater than 200 mcg per kg per min are not recommended. Monitor patients closely, especially if pretreatment blood pressure is low. In case of an unacceptable drop in blood pressure, reduce or stop BREVIBLOC injection. Decrease of dose or termination of infusion reverses hypotension, usually within 30 minutes. 5.2 Bradycardia Bradycardia, including sinus pause, heart block, severe bradycardia, and cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of BREVIBLOC injection. Patients with first-degree atrioventricular block, sinus node dysfunction, or conduction disorders may be at increased risk. Monitor heart rate and rhythm in patients receiving BREVIBLOC [see Contraindications (4)]. If severe bradycardia develops, reduce or stop BREVIBLOC. 5.3 Cardiac Failure Beta blockers, like BREVIBLOC injection, can cause depression of myocardial contractility and may precipitate heart failure and cardiogenic shock. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, stop BREVIBLOC and start supportive therapy [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.4 Intraoperative and Postoperative Tachycardia and/or Hypertension Monitor vital signs closely and titrate BREVIBLOC slowly in the treatment of patients whose blood pressure is primarily driven by vasoconstriction associated with hypothermia. 5.5 Reactive Airways Disease Patients with reactive airways disease should, in general, not receive beta blockers. Because of its relative beta1 selectivity and titratability, titrate BREVIBLOC to the lowest possible effective dose. In the event of bronchospasm, stop the infusion immediately; a beta2 stimulating agent may be administered with appropriate monitoring of ventricular rates. 5.6 Use in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia In patients with hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or other hypoglycemic agents, beta blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia, but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be masked. Concomitant use of beta blockers and antidiabetic agents can enhance the effect of antidiabetic agents (blood glucose-lowering). 5.7 Infusion Site Reactions Infusion site reactions have occurred with the use of BREVIBLOC injection. They include irritation, inflammation, and severe reactions (thrombophlebitis, necrosis, and blistering), in particular when associated with extravasation [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Avoid infusions into small veins or through a butterfly catheter. If a local infusion site reaction develops, use an alternative infusion site and avoid extravasation. 5.8 Use in Patients with Prinzmetal's Angina Beta blockers may exacerbate anginal attacks in patients with Prinzmetal's angina because of unopposed alpha receptor-mediated coronary artery vasoconstriction. Do not use nonselective beta blockers. 5.9 Use in Patients with Pheochromocytoma If BREVIBLOC is used in the setting of pheochromocytoma, give it in combination with an alpha-blocker, and only after the alpha-blocker has been initiated. Administration of beta-blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure from the attenuation of beta-mediated vasodilation in skeletal muscle. 5.10 Use in Hypovolemic Patients In hypovolemic patients, BREVIBLOC injection can attenuate reflex tachycardia and increase the risk of hypotension. 5.11 Use in Patients with Peripheral Circulatory Disorders In patients with peripheral circulatory disorders (including Raynaud's disease or syndrome, and peripheral occlusive vascular disease), BREVIBLOC may aggravate peripheral circulatory disorders. 5.12 Abrupt Discontinuation of BREVIBLOC Injection Severe exacerbations of angina, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients with coronary artery disease upon abrupt discontinuation of beta blocker therapy. Observe patients for signs of myocardial ischemia when discontinuing BREVIBLOC. Heart rate increases moderately above pretreatment levels 30 minutes after BREVIBLOC discontinuation. 5.13 Hyperkalemia Beta blockers, including BREVIBLOC, have been associated with increases in serum potassium levels and hyperkalemia. The risk is increased in patients with risk factors such as renal impairment. Intravenous administration of beta blockers has been reported to cause potentially life-threatening hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients. Monitor serum electrolytes during therapy with BREVIBLOC. 5.14 Use in Patients with Metabolic Acidosis Beta blockers, including BREVIBLOC, have been reported to cause hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis. Acidosis in general may be associated with reduced cardiac contractility. 5.15 Use in Patients with Hyperthyroidism Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, monitor patients for signs of thyrotoxicosis when withdrawing beta blocking therapy. 5.16 Use in Patients at Risk of Severe Acute Hypersensitivity Reactions When using beta blockers, patients at risk of anaphylactic reactions may be more reactive to allergen exposure (accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic). Patients using beta blockers may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions [see Drug Interactions (7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and cardiac failure: Reduce or discontinue use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.10) Risk of exacerbating reactive airway disease (5.5) Diabetes mellitus: Increases the effect of hypoglycemic agents and masks hypoglycemic tachycardia (5.6) Risk of unopposed alpha-agonism and severe hypertension in untreated pheochromocytoma (5.9) Risk of myocardial ischemia when abruptly discontinued in patients with coronary artery disease (5.12, 5.15) 5.1 Hypotension Hypotension can occur at any dose but is dose-related. Patients with hemodynamic compromise or on interacting medications are at particular risk. Severe reactions may include loss of consciousness, cardiac arrest, and death. For control of ventricular heart rate, maintenance doses greater than 200 mcg per kg per min are not recommended. Monitor patients closely, especially if pretreatment blood pressure is low. In case of an unacceptable drop in blood pressure, reduce or stop esmolol hydrochloride. Decrease of dose or termination of infusion reverses hypotension, usually within 30 minutes. 5.2 Bradycardia Bradycardia, including sinus pause, heart block, severe bradycardia, and cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of esmolol hydrochloride. Patients with first-degree atrioventricular block, sinus node dysfunction, or conduction disorders may be at increased risk. Monitor heart rate and rhythm in patients receiving esmolol hydrochloride [see Contraindications (4) ]. If severe bradycardia develops, reduce or stop esmolol hydrochloride. 5.3 Cardiac Failure Beta blockers, like esmolol hydrochloride, can cause depression of myocardial contractility and may precipitate heart failure and cardiogenic shock. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, stop esmolol hydrochloride and start supportive therapy [see Overdosage (10) ]. 5.4 Intraoperative and Postoperative Tachycardia and Hypertension Monitor vital signs closely and titrate esmolol hydrochloride slowly in the treatment of patients whose blood pressure is primarily driven by vasoconstriction associated with hypothermia. 5.5 Reactive Airways Disease Patients with reactive airways disease should, in general, not receive beta blockers. Because of its relative beta1 selectivity and titratability, titrate esmolol hydrochloride to the lowest possible effective dose. In the event of bronchospasm, stop the infusion immediately; a beta2 stimulating agent may be administered with appropriate monitoring of ventricular rate. 5.6 Use in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia In patients with hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or other hypoglycemic agents, beta blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia, but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be masked. Concomitant use of beta blockers and antidiabetic agents can enhance the effect of antidiabetic agents (blood glucose-lowering) . 5.7 Infusion Site Reactions Infusion site reactions have occurred with the use of esmolol hydrochloride. They include irritation, inflammation, and severe reactions (thrombophlebitis, necrosis, and blistering), in particular when associated with extravasation [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Avoid infusions into small veins or through a butterfly catheter. If a local infusion site reaction develops, use an alternative infusion site and avoid extravasation. 5.8 Use in Patients with Prinzmetal's Angina Beta blockers may exacerbate anginal attacks in patients with Prinzmetal's angina because of unopposed alpha receptor-mediated coronary artery vasoconstriction. Do not use nonselective beta blockers. 5.9 Use in Patients with Pheochromocytoma If esmolol hydrochloride is used in the setting of pheochromocytoma, give it in combination with an alpha blocker, and only after the alpha blocker has been initiated. Administration of beta blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure from the attenuation of beta-mediated vasodilation in skeletal muscle. 5.10 Use in Hypovolemic Patients In hypovolemic patients, esmolol hydrochloride can attenuate reflex tachycardia and increase the risk of hypotension. 5.11 Use in Patients with Peripheral Circulatory Disorders In patients with peripheral circulatory disorders (including Raynaud's disease or syndrome, and peripheral occlusive vascular disease), esmolol hydrochloride may aggravate peripheral circulatory disorders. 5.12 Abrupt Discontinuation of Esmolol Hydrochloride Severe exacerbations of angina, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients with coronary artery disease upon abrupt discontinuation of beta-blocker therapy. Observe patients for signs of myocardial ischemia when discontinuing esmolol hydrochloride. Heart rate increases moderately above pre-treatment levels 30 minutes after esmolol hydrochloride discontinuation. 5.13 Hyperkalemia Beta blockers, including esmolol hydrochloride, have been associated with increases in serum potassium levels and hyperkalemia. The risk is increased in patients with risk factors such as renal impairment. Intravenous administration of beta blockers has been reported to cause potentially life-threatening hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients. Monitor serum electrolytes during therapy with esmolol hydrochloride. 5.14 Use in Patients with Metabolic Acidosis Beta blockers, including esmolol hydrochloride, have been reported to cause hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis. Acidosis in general may be associated with reduced cardiac contractility. 5.15 Use in Patients with Hyperthyroidism Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, monitor patients for signs of thyrotoxicosis when withdrawing beta-blocking therapy. 5.16 Use in Patients at Risk of Severe Acute Hypersensitivity Reactions When using beta blockers, patients at risk of anaphylactic reactions may be more reactive to allergen exposure (accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic). Patients using beta blockers may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ].",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and cardiac failure: Reduce or discontinue use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.10) Risk of exacerbating reactive airway disease (5.5) Diabetes mellitus: Increases the effect of hypoglycemic agents and masks hypoglycemic tachycardia (5.6) Risk of unopposed alpha-agonism and severe hypertension in untreated pheochromocytoma (5.9) Risk of myocardial ischemia when abruptly discontinued in patients with coronary artery disease (5.12, 5.15) 5.1 Hypotension Hypotension can occur at any dose but is dose-related. Patients with hemodynamic compromise or on interacting medications are at particular risk. Severe reactions may include loss of consciousness, cardiac arrest, and death. For control of ventricular heart rate, maintenance doses greater than 200 mcg per kg per min are not recommended. Monitor patients closely, especially if pretreatment blood pressure is low. In case of an unacceptable drop in blood pressure, reduce or stop esmolol hydrochloride. Decrease of dose or termination of infusion reverses hypotension, usually within 30 minutes. 5.2 Bradycardia Bradycardia, including sinus pause, heart block, severe bradycardia, and cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of esmolol hydrochloride. Patients with first-degree atrioventricular block, sinus node dysfunction, or conduction disorders may be at increased risk. Monitor heart rate and rhythm in patients receiving esmolol hydrochloride [see Contraindications (4)]. If severe bradycardia develops, reduce or stop esmolol hydrochloride. 5.3 Cardiac Failure Beta blockers, like esmolol hydrochloride, can cause depression of myocardial contractility and may precipitate heart failure and cardiogenic shock. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, stop esmolol hydrochloride and start supportive therapy [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.4 Intraoperative and Postoperative Tachycardia and Hypertension Monitor vital signs closely and titrate esmolol hydrochloride slowly in the treatment of patients whose blood pressure is primarily driven by vasoconstriction associated with hypothermia. 5.5 Reactive Airways Disease Patients with reactive airways disease should, in general, not receive beta blockers. Because of its relative beta1 selectivity and titratability, titrate esmolol hydrochloride to the lowest possible effective dose. In the event of bronchospasm, stop the infusion immediately; a beta2 stimulating agent may be administered with appropriate monitoring of ventricular rate. 5.6 Use in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia In patients with hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or other hypoglycemic agents, beta blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia, but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be masked. Concomitant use of beta blockers and antidiabetic agents can enhance the effect of antidiabetic agents (blood glucose-lowering). 5.7 Infusion Site Reactions Infusion site reactions have occurred with the use of esmolol hydrochloride. They include irritation, inflammation, and severe reactions (thrombophlebitis, necrosis, and blistering), in particular when associated with extravasation [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Avoid infusions into small veins or through a butterfly catheter. If a local infusion site reaction develops, use an alternative infusion site and avoid extravasation. 5.8 Use in Patients with Prinzmetal's Angina Beta blockers may exacerbate anginal attacks in patients with Prinzmetal's angina because of unopposed alpha receptor-mediated coronary artery vasoconstriction. Do not use nonselective beta blockers. 5.9 Use in Patients with Pheochromocytoma If esmolol hydrochloride is used in the setting of pheochromocytoma, give it in combination with an alpha-blocker, and only after the alpha-blocker has been initiated. Administration of beta-blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure from the attenuation of beta-mediated vasodilation in skeletal muscle. 5.10 Use in Hypovolemic Patients In hypovolemic patients, esmolol hydrochloride can attenuate reflex tachycardia and increase the risk of hypotension. 5.11 Use in Patients with Peripheral Circulatory Disorders In patients with peripheral circulatory disorders (including Raynaud's disease or syndrome, and peripheral occlusive vascular disease), esmolol hydrochloride may aggravate peripheral circulatory disorders. 5.12 Abrupt Discontinuation of Esmolol Hydrochloride Severe exacerbations of angina, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients with coronary artery disease upon abrupt discontinuation of beta blocker therapy. Observe patients for signs of myocardial ischemia when discontinuing esmolol hydrochloride. Heart rate increases moderately above pre-treatment levels 30 minutes after esmolol hydrochloride discontinuation. 5.13 Hyperkalemia Beta blockers, including esmolol hydrochloride, have been associated with increases in serum potassium levels and hyperkalemia. The risk is increased in patients with risk factors such as renal impairment. Intravenous administration of beta blockers has been reported to cause potentially life-threatening hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients. Monitor serum electrolytes during therapy with esmolol hydrochloride. 5.14 Use in Patients with Metabolic Acidosis Beta blockers, including esmolol hydrochloride, have been reported to cause hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis. Acidosis in general may be associated with reduced cardiac contractility. 5.15 Use in Patients with Hyperthyroidism Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, monitor patients for signs of thyrotoxicosis when withdrawing beta blocking therapy. 5.16 Use in Patients at Risk of Severe Acute Hypersensitivity Reactions When using beta blockers, patients at risk of anaphylactic reactions may be more reactive to allergen exposure (accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic). Patients using beta blockers may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions [see Drug Interactions (7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and cardiac failure: Reduce or discontinue use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.10) -Risk of exacerbating reactive airway disease (5.5) -Diabetes mellitus: Increases the effect of hypoglycemic agents and masks hypoglycemic tachycardia (5.6) -Risk of unopposed alpha-agonism and severe hypertension in untreated pheochromocytoma (5.9) -Risk of myocardial ischemia when abruptly discontinued in patients with coronary artery disease (5.12, 5.15) 5.1 Hypotension Hypotension can occur at any dose but is dose-related. Patients with hemodynamic compromise or on interacting medications are at particular risk. Severe reactions may include loss of consciousness, cardiac arrest, and death. For control of ventricular heart rate, maintenance doses greater than 200 mcg per kg per min are not recommended. Monitor patients closely, especially if pretreatment blood pressure is low. In case of an unacceptable drop in blood pressure, reduce or stop esmolol hydrochloride injection. Decrease of dose or termination of infusion reverses hypotension, usually within 30 minutes. 5.2 Bradycardia Bradycardia, including sinus pause, heart block, severe bradycardia, and cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of esmolol hydrochloride injection. Patients with first-degree atrioventricular block, sinus node dysfunction, or conduction disorders may be at increased risk. Monitor heart rate and rhythm in patients receiving esmolol hydrochloride [see Contraindications (4)]. If severe bradycardia develops, reduce or stop esmolol hydrochloride. 5.3 Cardiac Failure Beta blockers, like esmolol hydrochloride injection, can cause depression of myocardial contractility and may precipitate heart failure and cardiogenic shock. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, stop esmolol hydrochloride and start supportive therapy [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.4 Intraoperative and Postoperative Tachycardia and/or Hypertension Monitor vital signs closely and titrate esmolol hydrochloride slowly in the treatment of patients whose blood pressure is primarily driven by vasoconstriction associated with hypothermia. 5.5 Reactive Airways Disease Patients with reactive airways disease should, in general, not receive beta blockers. Because of its relative beta1 selectivity and titratability, titrate esmolol hydrochloride to the lowest possible effective dose. In the event of bronchospasm, stop the infusion immediately; a beta2 stimulating agent may be administered with appropriate monitoring of ventricular rates. 5.6 Use in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia In patients with hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or other hypoglycemic agents, beta blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia, but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be masked. Concomitant use of beta blockers and antidiabetic agents can enhance the effect of antidiabetic agents (blood glucose-lowering). 5.7 Infusion Site Reactions Infusion site reactions have occurred with the use of esmolol hydrochloride injection. They include irritation, inflammation, and severe reactions (thrombophlebitis, necrosis, and blistering), in particular when associated with extravasation [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Avoid infusions into small veins or through a butterfly catheter. If a local infusion site reaction develops, use an alternative infusion site and avoid extravasation. 5.8 Use in Patients with Prinzmetal's Angina Beta blockers may exacerbate anginal attacks in patients with Prinzmetal's angina because of unopposed alpha receptor-mediated coronary artery vasoconstriction. Do not use nonselective beta blockers. 5.9 Use in Patients with Pheochromocytoma If esmolol hydrochloride is used in the setting of pheochromocytoma, give it in combination with an alpha-blocker, and only after the alpha-blocker has been initiated. Administration of beta-blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure from the attenuation of beta-mediated vasodilation in skeletal muscle. 5.10 Use in Hypovolemic Patients In hypovolemic patients, esmolol hydrochloride injection can attenuate reflex tachycardia and increase the risk of hypotension. 5.11 Use in Patients with Peripheral Circulatory Disorders In patients with peripheral circulatory disorders (including Raynaud's disease or syndrome, and peripheral occlusive vascular disease), esmolol hydrochloride may aggravate peripheral circulatory disorders. 5.12 Abrupt Discontinuation of Esmolol Hydrochloride Injection Severe exacerbations of angina, myocardial infarction, and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in patients with coronary artery disease upon abrupt discontinuation of beta blocker therapy. Observe patients for signs of myocardial ischemia when discontinuing esmolol hydrochloride. Heart rate increases moderately above pretreatment levels 30 minutes after esmolol hydrochloride discontinuation. 5.13 Hyperkalemia Beta blockers, including esmolol hydrochloride, have been associated with increases in serum potassium levels and hyperkalemia. The risk is increased in patients with risk factors such as renal impairment. Intravenous administration of beta blockers has been reported to cause potentially life-threatening hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients. Monitor serum electrolytes during therapy with esmolol hydrochloride. 5.14 Use in Patients with Metabolic Acidosis Beta blockers, including esmolol hydrochloride, have been reported to cause hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis. Acidosis in general may be associated with reduced cardiac contractility. 5.15 Use in Patients with Hyperthyroidism Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, monitor patients for signs of thyrotoxicosis when withdrawing beta blocking therapy. 5.16 Use in Patients at Risk of Severe Acute Hypersensitivity Reactions When using beta blockers, patients at risk of anaphylactic reactions may be more reactive to allergen exposure (accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic). Patients using beta blockers may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions [see Drug Interactions (7)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >10%) are symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) and asymptomatic hypotension (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AuroMedics Pharma LLC at 1-866-850-2876 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol hydrochloride in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important and common adverse effect has been hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol hydrochloride was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Table 3 Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency >=3%) System Organ Class (SOC) Preferred MedDRA Term Frequency VASCULAR DISORDERS Hypotension* Asymptomatic hypotension Symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) 25% 12% GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Infusion site reactions (inflammation and induration) 8% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Nausea 7% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Dizziness Somnolence 3% 3% * Hypotension resolved during esmolol hydrochloride infusion in 63% of patients. In 80% of the remaining patients, hypotension resolved within 30 minutes following discontinuation of infusion. Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency <3%) Psychiatric Disorders Confusional state and agitation (~2%) Anxiety, depression and abnormal thinking (<1%) Nervous System Disorders Headache (~ 2%) Paresthesia, syncope, speech disorder, and lightheadedness (<1%) Convulsions (<1%), with one death Vascular Disorders Peripheral ischemia (~1%) Pallor and flushing (<1%) Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting (~1%) Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort have (<1%) Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary retention (<1%) 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiac Disorders Cardiac arrest, Coronary arteriospasm Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Angioedema, Urticaria, Psoriasis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >10%) are symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) and asymptomatic hypotension (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Baxter Healthcare Corporation at 1-866-888-2472 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of BREVIBLOC (Esmolol Hydrochloride) in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important and common adverse effect has been hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where BREVIBLOC was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Table 3 Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency >=3%) System Organ Class (SOC) Preferred MedDRA Term Frequency VASCULAR DISORDERS Hypotension* Asymptomatic hypotension 25% Symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) 12% GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Infusion site reactions (inflammation and induration) 8% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Nausea 7% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Dizziness 3% Somnolence 3% * Hypotension resolved during BREVIBLOC (Esmolol Hydrochloride) infusion in 63% of patients. In 80% of the remaining patients, hypotension resolved within 30 minutes following discontinuation of infusion. Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency <3%) Psychiatric Disorders Confusional state and agitation (~2%) Anxiety, depression and abnormal thinking (<1%) Nervous System Disorders Headache (~ 2%) Paresthesia, syncope, speech disorder, and lightheadedness (<1%) Convulsions (<1%), with one death Vascular Disorders Peripheral ischemia (~1%) Pallor and flushing (<1%) Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting (~1%) Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort (<1%) Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary retention (<1%) 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiac Disorders Cardiac arrest, Coronary arteriospasm Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Angioedema, Urticaria, Psoriasis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence> 10%) are symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) and asymptomatic hypotension (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Baxter Healthcare Corporation at 1-866-888-2472 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol hydrochloride in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important and common adverse effect has been hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol hydrochloride was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Table 3 Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency >=3%) System Organ Class (SOC) Preferred MedDRA Term Frequency VASCULAR DISORDERS Hypotension* Asymptomatic hypotension 25% Symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) 12% GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Infusion site reactions (inflammation and induration) 8% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Nausea 7% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Dizziness 3% Somnolence 3% * Hypotension resolved during esmolol hydrochloride infusion in 63% of patients. In 80% of the remaining patients, hypotension resolved within 30 minutes following discontinuation of infusion. Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency <3%) Psychiatric Disorders Confusional state and agitation (~2%) Anxiety, depression and abnormal thinking (<1%) Nervous System Disorders Headache (~ 2%) Paresthesia, syncope, speech disorder, and lightheadedness (<1%) Convulsions (<1%), with one death Vascular Disorders Peripheral ischemia (~1%) Pallor and flushing (<1%) Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting (~1%) Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort (<1%) Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary retention (<1%) 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiac Disorders Cardiac arrest, Coronary arteriospasm Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Angioedema, Urticaria, Psoriasis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence > 10%) are symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) and asymptomatic hypotension (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC at 1-800-551-7176 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol hydrochloride in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important and common adverse effect has been hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol hydrochloride was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Table 3: Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency >=3%) System Organ Class (SOC) Preferred MedDRA Term Frequency VASCULAR DISORDERS Hypotension* Asymptomatic hypotension Symptomatic hypotension (hyperhidrosis, dizziness) 25% 12% GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Infusion site reactions (inflammation and induration) 8% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Nausea 7% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Dizziness 3% Somnolence 3% * Hypotension resolved during esmolol hydrochloride infusion in 63% of patients. In 80% of the remaining patients, hypotension resolved within 30 minutes following discontinuation of infusion. Clinical Trial Adverse Reactions (Frequency <3%) Psychiatric Disorders Confusional state and agitation (~2%) Anxiety, depression and abnormal thinking (<1%) Nervous System Disorders Headache (~2%) Paresthesia, syncope, speech disorder, and lightheadedness (<1%) Convulsions (<1%), with one death Vascular Disorders Peripheral ischemia (~1%) Pallor and flushing (<1%) Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting (~1%) Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort have (<1%) Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary retention (<1%) 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiac Disorders Cardiac arrest, Coronary arteriospasm Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Angioedema, Urticaria, Psoriasis",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of BREVIBLOC injection with other drugs that can lower blood pressure, reduce myocardial contractility, or interfere with sinus node function or electrical impulse propagation in the myocardium can exaggerate BREVIBLOC's effects on blood pressure, contractility, and impulse propagation. Severe interactions with such drugs can result in, for example, severe hypotension, cardiac failure, severe bradycardia, sinus pause, sinoatrial block, atrioventricular block, and/or cardiac arrest. In addition, with some drugs, beta blockade may precipitate increased withdrawal effects. (See clonidine, guanfacine, and moxonidine below.) BREVIBLOC should therefore be used only after careful individual assessment of the risks and expected benefits in patients receiving drugs that can cause these types of pharmacodynamic interactions, including but not limited to: -Digitalis glycosides: Concomitant administration of digoxin and BREVIBLOC leads to an approximate 10% to 20% increase of digoxin blood levels at some time points. Digoxin does not affect BREVIBLOC pharmacokinetics. Both digoxin and beta blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use increases the risk of bradycardia. -Anticholinesterases: BREVIBLOC prolonged the duration of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade and moderately prolonged clinical duration and recovery index of mivacurium. -Antihypertensive agents clonidine, guanfacine, or moxonidine: Beta blockers also increase the risk of clonidine-, guanfacine-, or moxonidine-withdrawal rebound hypertension. If, during concomitant use of a beta blocker, antihypertensive therapy needs to be interrupted or discontinued, discontinue the beta blocker first, and the discontinuation should be gradual. -Calcium channel antagonists: In patients with depressed myocardial function, use of BREVIBLOC with cardiodepressant calcium channel antagonists (e.g., verapamil) can lead to fatal cardiac arrests. -Sympathomimetic drugs: Sympathomimetic drugs having beta-adrenergic agonist activity will counteract effects of BREVIBLOC. -Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic agents: Because of the risk of reducing cardiac contractility in presence of high systemic vascular resistance, do not use BREVIBLOC to control tachycardia in patients receiving drugs that are vasoconstrictive and have positive inotropic effects, such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. -Digitalis glycosides: Risk of bradycardia (7) -Anticholinesterases: Prolongs neuromuscular blockade (7) -Antihypertensive agents: Risk of rebound hypertension (7) -Sympathomimetic drugs: Dose adjustment needed (7) -Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic effect substances: Avoid concomitant use (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of esmolol hydrochloride injection with other drugs that can lower blood pressure, reduce myocardial contractility, or interfere with sinus node function or electrical impulse propagation in the myocardium can exaggerate esmolol hydrochloride's effects on blood pressure, contractility, and impulse propagation. Severe interactions with such drugs can result in, for example, severe hypotension, cardiac failure, severe bradycardia, sinus pause, sinoatrial block, atrioventricular block, and/or cardiac arrest. In addition, with some drugs, beta blockade may precipitate increased withdrawal effects. (See clonidine, guanfacine, and moxonidine below.) Esmolol hydrochloride should therefore be used only after careful individual assessment of the risks and expected benefits in patients receiving drugs that can cause these types of pharmacodynamic interactions, including but not limited to: -Digitalis glycosides: Concomitant administration of digoxin and esmolol hydrochloride leads to an approximate 10% to 20% increase of digoxin blood levels at some time points. Digoxin does not affect esmolol hydrochloride pharmacokinetics. Both digoxin and beta blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use increases the risk of bradycardia. -Anticholinesterases: Esmolol hydrochloride prolonged the duration of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade and moderately prolonged clinical duration and recovery index of mivacurium. -Antihypertensive agents clonidine, guanfacine, or moxonidine: Beta blockers also increase the risk of clonidine-, guanfacine-, or moxonidine-withdrawal rebound hypertension. If, during concomitant use of a beta blocker, antihypertensive therapy needs to be interrupted or discontinued, discontinue the beta blocker first, and the discontinuation should be gradual. -Calcium channel antagonists: In patients with depressed myocardial function, use of esmolol hydrochloride with cardiodepressant calcium channel antagonists (e.g., verapamil) can lead to fatal cardiac arrests. -Sympathomimetic drugs: Sympathomimetic drugs having beta-adrenergic agonist activity will counteract effects of esmolol hydrochloride. -Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic agents: Because of the risk of reducing cardiac contractility in presence of high systemic vascular resistance, do not use esmolol hydrochloride to control tachycardia in patients receiving drugs that are vasoconstrictive and have positive inotropic effects, such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. -Digitalis glycosides: Risk of bradycardia (7) -Anticholinesterases: Prolongs neuromuscular blockade (7) -Antihypertensive agents: Risk of rebound hypertension (7) -Sympathomimetic drugs: Dose adjustment needed (7) -Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic effect substances: Avoid concomitant use (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of esmolol hydrochloride with other drugs that can lower blood pressure, reduce myocardial contractility, or interfere with sinus node function or electrical impulse propagation in the myocardium can exaggerate esmolol hydrochloride's effects on blood pressure, contractility, and impulse propagation. Severe interactions with such drugs can result in, for example, severe hypotension, cardiac failure, severe bradycardia, sinus pause, sinoatrial block, atrioventricular block, and/or cardiac arrest. In addition, with some drugs, beta blockade may precipitate increased withdrawal effects. (See clonidine, guanfacine, and moxonidine below.) Esmolol hydrochloride should therefore be used only after careful individual assessment of the risks and expected benefits in patients receiving drugs that can cause these types of pharmacodynamic interactions, including but not limited to: Digitalis glycosides: Concomitant administration of digoxin and esmolol hydrochloride leads to an approximate 10% to 20% increase of digoxin blood levels at some time points. Digoxin does not affect esmolol hydrochloride pharmacokinetics. Both digoxin and beta blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use increases the risk of bradycardia. Anticholinesterases: Esmolol hydrochloride prolonged the duration of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade and moderately prolonged clinical duration and recovery index of mivacurium. Antihypertensive agents clonidine, guanfacine, or moxonidine: Beta blockers also increase the risk of clondidine-, guanfacine-, or moxonidine-withdrawal rebound hypertension. If, during concomitant use of a beta blocker, antihypertensive therapy needs to be interrupted or discontinued, discontinue the beta blocker first, and the discontinuation should be gradual. Calcium channel antagonists: In patients with depressed myocardial infarction, use of esmolol hydrochloride with cardiodepressant calcium channel antagonists (e.g., verapamil) can lead to fatal cardiac arrests. Sympathomimetic drugs: Sympathomimetic drugs having beta-adrenergic agonist activity will counteract effects of esmolol hydrochloride. Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic agents: Because of the risk of reducing cardiac contractility in presence of high systemic vascular resistance, do not use esmolol hydrochloride to control tachycardia in patients receiving drugs that are vasoconstrictive and have positive inotropic effects, such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. Digitalis glycosides: Risk of bradycardia (7) Anticholinesterases: Prolongs neuromuscular blockade (7) Antihypertensive agents: Risk of rebound hypertension (7) Sympathomimetic drugs: Dose adjustment needed (7) Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic effect substances: Avoid concomitant use (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of esmolol hydrochloride with other drugs that can lower blood pressure, reduce myocardial contractility, or interfere with sinus node function or electrical impulse propagation in the myocardium can exaggerate esmolol hydrochloride's effects on blood pressure, contractility, and impulse propagation. Severe interactions with such drugs can result in, for example, severe hypotension, cardiac failure, severe bradycardia, sinus pause, sinoatrial block, atrioventricular block, and/or cardiac arrest. In addition, with some drugs, beta blockade may precipitate increased withdrawal effects. (See clonidine, guanfacine, and moxonidine below.) Esmolol hydrochloride should therefore be used only after careful individual assessment of the risks and expected benefits in patients receiving drugs that can cause these types of pharmacodynamic interactions, including but not limited to: Digitalis glycosides: Concomitant administration of digoxin and esmolol hydrochloride leads to an approximate 10% to 20% increase of digoxin blood levels at some time points. Digoxin does not affect esmolol hydrochloride pharmacokinetics. Both digoxin and beta blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use increases the risk of bradycardia. Anticholinesterases: Esmolol hydrochloride prolonged the duration of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade and moderately prolonged clinical duration and recovery index of mivacurium. Antihypertensive agents clonidine, guanfacine, or moxonidine: Beta blockers also increase the risk of clonidine-, guanfacine-, or moxonidine-withdrawal rebound hypertension. If, during concomitant use of a beta blocker, antihypertensive therapy needs to be interrupted or discontinued, discontinue the beta blocker first, and the discontinuation should be gradual. Calcium channel antagonists: In patients with depressed myocardial infarction, use of esmolol hydrochloride with cardiodepressant calcium channel antagonists (e.g., verapamil) can lead to fatal cardiac arrests. Sympathomimetic drugs: Sympathomimetic drugs having beta-adrenergic agonist activity will counteract effects of esmolol hydrochloride. Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic agents: Because of the risk of reducing cardiac contractility in presence of high systemic vascular resistance, do not use esmolol hydrochloride to control tachycardia in patients receiving drugs that are vasoconstrictive and have positive inotropic effects, such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. Digitalis glycosides: Risk of bradycardia (7) Anticholinesterases: Prolongs neuromuscular blockade (7) Antihypertensive agents: Risk of rebound hypertension (7) Sympathomimetic drugs: Dose adjustment needed (7) Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic effect substances: Avoid concomitant use (7)"$$
"Adverse Reactions The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol hydrochloride in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enroIled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important adverse effect has been hypotension (see WARNINGS). Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate (see WARNINGS, Cardiac Failure). Cardiovascular Symptomatic hypotension (diaphoresis, dizziness) occurred in 12% of patients, and therapy was discontinued in about 11%, about half of whom were symptomatic. Asymptomatic hypotension occurred in about 25% of patients. Hypotension resolved during esmolol hydrochloride infusion in 63% of these patients and within 30 minutes after discontinuation of infusion in 80% of the remaining patients. Diaphoresis accompanied hypotension in 10% of patients. Peripheral ischemia occurred in approximately 1% of patients. Pallor, flushing, bradycardia (heart rate less than 50 beats per minute), chest pain, syncope, pulmonary edema and heart block have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. In two patients without supraventricular tachycardia but with serious coronary artery disease (post inferior myocardial infarction or unstable angina), severe bradycardia/sinus pause/asystole has developed, reversible in both cases with discontinuation of treatment. Central Nervous System Dizziness has occurred in 3% of patients; somnolence in 3%: confusion, headache, and agitation in about 2%; and fatigue in about 1% of patients. Paresthesia, asthenia, depression, abnormal thinking, anxiety, anorexia, and lightheadedness were reported in less than 1% of patients. Seizures were also reported in less than 1% of patients, with one death. Respiratory Bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, nasal congestion, rhonchi, and rales have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. Gastrointestinal Nausea was reported in 7% of patients. Vomiting has occurred in about 1% of patients. Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Taste perversion has also been reported. Skin (Infusion Site) Infusion site reactions including inflammation and induration were reported in about 8% of patients. Edema, erythema, skin discoloration, burning at the infusion site, thrombophlebitis, and local skin necrosis from extravasation have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Miscellaneous Each of the following has been reported in less than 1% of patients: Urinary retention, speech disorder, abnormal vision, midscapular pain, rigors, and fever."$$
"Adverse Reactions The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol hydrochloride in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important adverse effect has been hypotension (see WARNINGS). Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol hydrochloride was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate (see WARNINGS, Cardiac Failure). Cardiovascular Symptomatic hypotension (diaphoresis, dizziness) occurred in 12% of patients, and therapy was discontinued in about 11%, about half of whom were symptomatic. Asymptomatic hypotension occurred in about 25% of patients. Hypotension resolved during esmolol hydrochloride infusion in 63% of these patients and within 30 minutes after discontinuation of infusion in 80% of the remaining patients. Diaphoresis accompanied hypotension in 10% of patients. Peripheral ischemia occurred in approximately 1% of patients. Pallor, flushing, bradycardia (heart rate less than 50 beats per minute), chest pain, syncope, pulmonary edema and heart block have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. In two patients without supraventricular tachycardia but with serious coronary artery disease (post inferior myocardial infarction or unstable angina), severe bradycardia/sinus pause/asystole has developed, reversible in both cases with discontinuation of treatment. Central Nervous System Dizziness has occurred in 3% of patients; somnolence in 3%; confusion, headache, and agitation in about 2%; and fatigue in about 1% of patients. Paresthesia, asthenia, depression, abnormal thinking, anxiety, anorexia, and lightheadedness were reported in less than 1% of patients. Seizures were also reported in less than 1% of patients, with one death. Respiratory Bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, nasal congestion, rhonchi, and rales have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. Gastrointestinal Nausea was reported in 7% of patients. Vomiting has occurred in about 1% of patients. Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Taste perversion has also been reported. Skin (Infusion Site) Infusion site reactions including inflammation and induration were reported in about 8% of patients. Edema, erythema, skin discoloration, burning at the infusion site, thrombophlebitis, and local skin necrosis from extravasation have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Miscellaneous Each of the following has been reported in less than 1% of patients: Urinary retention, speech disorder, abnormal vision, midscapular pain, rigors, and fever."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol hydrochloride in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important adverse effect has been hypotension (see WARNINGS). Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol hydrochloride was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate (see WARNINGS, Cardiac Failure). Cardiovascular Symptomatic hypotension (diaphoresis, dizziness) occurred in 12% of patients, and therapy was discontinued in about 11%, about half of whom were symptomatic. Asymptomatic hypotension occurred in about 25% of patients. Hypotension resolved during esmolol hydrochloride infusion in 63% of these patients and within 30 minutes after discontinuation of infusion in 80% of the remaining patients. Diaphoresis accompanied hypotension in 10% of patients. Peripheral ischemia occurred in approximately 1% of patients. Pallor, flushing, bradycardia (heart rate less than 50 beats per minute), chest pain, syncope, pulmonary edema and heart block have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. In two patients without supraventricular tachycardia but with serious coronary artery disease (post inferior myocardial infarction or unstable angina), severe bradycardia/sinus pause/asystole has developed, reversible in both cases with discontinuation of treatment. Central Nervous System Dizziness has occurred in 3% of patients; somnolence in 3%; confusion, headache, and agitation in about 2%; and fatigue in about 1% of patients. Paresthesia, asthenia, depression, abnormal thinking, anxiety, anorexia, and lightheadedness were reported in less than 1% of patients. Seizures were also reported in less than 1% of patients, with one death. Respiratory Bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, nasal congestion, rhonchi, and rales have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. Gastrointestinal Nausea was reported in 7% of patients. Vomiting has occurred in about 1% of patients. Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Taste perversion has also been reported. Skin (Infusion Site) Infusion site reactions including inflammation and induration were reported in about 8% of patients. Edema, erythema, skin discoloration, burning at the infusion site, thrombophlebitis, and local skin necrosis from extravasation have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Miscellaneous Each of the following has been reported in less than 1% of patients: Urinary retention, speech disorder, abnormal vision, midscapular pain, rigors, and fever."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol hydrochloride in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important adverse effect has been hypotension (see WARNINGS). Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol hydrochloride was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate (see WARNINGS, Cardiac Failure). Cardiovascular Symptomatic hypotension (diaphoresis, dizziness) occurred in 12% of patients, and therapy was discontinued in about 11%, about half of whom were symptomatic. Asymptomatic hypotension occurred in about 25% of patients. Hypotension resolved during esmolol hydrochloride infusion in 63% of these patients and within 30 minutes after discontinuation of infusion in 80% of the remaining patients. Diaphoresis accompanied hypotension in 10% of patients. Peripheral ischemia occurred in approximately 1% of patients. Pallor, flushing, bradycardia (heart rate less than 50 beats per minute), chest pain, syncope, pulmonary edema and heart block have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. In two patients without supraventricular tachycardia but with serious coronary artery disease (post inferior myocardial infarction or unstable angina), severe bradycardia/sinus pause/asystole has developed, reversible in both cases with discontinuation of treatment. Central Nervous System Dizziness has occurred in 3% of patients; somnolence in 3%; confusion, headache, and agitation in about 2%; and fatigue in about 1% of patients. Paresthesia, asthenia, depression, abnormal thinking, anxiety, anorexia, and lightheadedness were reported in less than 1% of patients. Seizures were also reported in less than 1% of patients, with one death. Respiratory Bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, nasal congestion, rhonchi, and rales have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. Gastrointestinal Nausea was reported in 7% of patients. Vomiting has occurred in about 1% of patients. Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Taste perversion has also been reported. Skin (Infusion Site) Infusion site reactions including inflammation and induration were reported in about 8% of patients. Edema, erythema, skin discoloration, burning at the infusion site, thrombophlebitis, and local skin necrosis from extravasation have each occurred in less than1% of patients. Miscellaneous Each of the following has been reported in less than 1% of patients: Urinary retention, speech disorder, abnormal vision, midscapular pain, rigors, and fever."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reaction rates are based on use of esmolol in clinical trials involving 369 patients with supraventricular tachycardia and over 600 intraoperative and postoperative patients enrolled in clinical trials. Most adverse effects observed in controlled clinical trial settings have been mild and transient. The most important adverse effect has been hypotension (see WARNINGS ). Deaths have been reported in post-marketing experience occurring during complex clinical states where esmolol was presumably being used simply to control ventricular rate (see WARNINGS, Cardiac Failure ). Cardiovascular - Symptomatic hypotension (diaphoresis, dizziness) occurred in 12% of patients, and therapy was discontinued in about 11%, about half of whom were symptomatic. Asymptomatic hypotension occurred in about 25% of patients. Hypotension resolved during esmolol infusion in 63% of these patients and within 30 minutes after discontinuation of infusion in 80% of the remaining patients. Diaphoresis accompanied hypotension in 10% of patients. Peripheral ischemia occurred in approximately 1% of patients. Pallor, flushing, bradycardia (heart rate less than 50 beats per minute), chest pain, syncope, pulmonary edema and heart block have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. In two patients without supraventricular tachycardia but with serious coronary artery disease (post inferior myocardial infarction or unstable angina), severe bradycardia/sinus pause/asystole has developed, reversible in both cases with discontinuation of treatment. Central Nervous System - Dizziness has occurred in 3% of patients; somnolence in 3%; confusion, headache, and agitation in about 2%; and fatigue in about 1% of patients. Paresthesia, asthenia, depression, abnormal thinking, anxiety, anorexia, and lightheadedness were reported in less than 1% of patients. Seizures were also reported in less than 1% of patients, with one death. Respiratory - Bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, nasal congestion, rhonchi, and rales have each been reported in less than 1% of patients. Gastrointestinal - Nausea was reported in 7% of patients. Vomiting has occurred in about 1% of patients. Dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and abdominal discomfort have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Taste perversion has also been reported. Skin (Infusion Site) - Infusion site reactions including inflammation and induration were reported in about 8% of patients. Edema, erythema, skin discoloration, burning at the infusion site, thrombophlebitis, and local skin necrosis from extravasation have each occurred in less than 1% of patients. Miscellaneous - Each of the following has been reported in less than 1% of patients: Urinary retention, speech disorder, abnormal vision, midscapular pain, rigors, and fever."$$
"Drug Interactions Catecholamine-depleting drugs, e.g., reserpine, may have an additive effect when given with beta blocking agents. Patients treated concurrently with esmolol and a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may result in vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. A study of interaction between esmolol and warfarin showed that concomitant administration of esmolol and warfarin does not alter warfarin plasma levels. Esmolol concentrations were equivocally higher when given with warfarin, but this is not likely to be clinically important. When digoxin and esmolol were concomitantly administered intravenously to normal volunteers, there was a 10% to 20% increase in digoxin blood levels at some time points. Digoxin did not affect esmolol pharmacokinetics. When intravenous morphine and esmolol were concomitantly administered in normal subjects, no effect on morphine blood levels was seen, but esmolol steady-state blood levels were increased by 46% in the presence of morphine. No other pharmacokinetic parameters were changed. The effect of esmolol on the duration of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade was studied in patients undergoing surgery. The onset of neuromuscular blockade by succinylcholine was unaffected by esmolol, but the duration of neuromuscular blockade was prolonged from 5 minutes to 8 minutes. Although the interactions observed in these studies do not appear to be of major clinical importance, esmolol should be titrated with caution in patients being treated concurrently with digoxin, morphine, succinylcholine or warfarin. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. Caution should be exercised when considering the use of esmolol and verapamil in patients with depressed myocardial function. Fatal cardiac arrests have occurred in patients receiving both drugs. Additionally, esmolol should not be used to control supraventricular tachycardia in the presence of agents which are vasoconstrictive and inotropic such as dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine because of the danger of blocking cardiac contractility when systemic vascular resistance is high."$$
"Drug Interactions Catecholamine-depleting drugs, e.g., reserpine, may have an additive effect when given with beta blocking agents. Patients treated concurrently with esmolol hydrochloride and a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may result in vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. A study of interaction between esmolol hydrochloride and warfarin showed that concomitant administration of esmolol hydrochloride and warfarin does not alter warfarin plasma levels. Esmolol hydrochloride concentrations were equivocally higher when given with warfarin, but this is not likely to be clinically important. When digoxin and esmolol hydrochloride were concomitantly administered intravenously to normal volunteers, there was a 10-20% increase in digoxin blood levels at some time points. Digoxin did not affect esmolol hydrochloride pharmacokinetics. When intravenous morphine and esmolol hydrochloride were concomitantly administered in normal subjects, no effect on morphine blood levels was seen, but esmolol hydrochloride steady-state blood levels were increased by 46% in the presence of morphine. No other pharmacokinetic parameters were changed. The effect of esmolol hydrochloride on the duration of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade was studied in patients undergoing surgery. The onset of neuromuscular blockade by succinylcholine was unaffected by esmolol hydrochloride, but the duration of neuromuscular blockade was prolonged from 5 minutes to 8 minutes. Although the interactions observed in these studies do not appear to be of major clinical importance, esmolol hydrochloride should be titrated with caution in patients being treated concurrently with digoxin, morphine, succinylcholine or warfarin. While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. Caution should be exercised when considering the use of esmolol hydrochloride and verapamil in patients with depressed myocardial function. Fatal cardiac arrests have occurred in patients receiving both drugs. Additionally, esmolol hydrochloride should not be used to control supraventricular tachycardia in the presence of agents which are vasoconstrictive and inotropic such as dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine because of the danger of blocking cardiac contractility when systemic vascular resistance is high."$$
