
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Associated with Estrogens (See WARNINGS regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogenic therapy, including oral contraceptives: 1. Genitourinary system: Breakthrough bleeding; spotting; change in menstrual flow; dysmenorrhea; premenstrual-like syndrome; amenorrhea during and after treatment; increase in size of urerine fibromyomata; vaginal candidiasis; change in cervical erosion and in degree of cervical secretion; cystitis-like syndrome. 2. Breasts: Tenderness: enlargement; secretion. 3. Gastrointestinal: Nausea; vomiting; abdominal cramps; bloating; cholestatic jaundice. 4. Skin: Chloasma or melasma which may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism. 5. Eyes: Steepening of corneal curvature; intolerance to contact lenses. 6. Central Nervous System: Headache, migraine, dizziness; mental depression; chorea. 7. Miscellaneous: Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; changes in libido. Associated with Methyltestosterone 1. Endocrine and Urogenital. Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. 2. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. 3. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. 4. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis (See WARNINGS). 5. Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. 6. Nervous System. Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. 7. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. 8. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparatons, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Associated with Estrogens (See Warnings regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogenic therapy, including oral contraceptives: Genitourinary system. Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, change in menstrual flow. Dysmenorrhea. Premenstrual-like syndrome. Amenorrhea during and after treatment. Increase in size of uterine fibromyomata. Vaginal candidiasis. Change in cervical erosion and in degree of cervical secretion. Cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts. Tenderness, enlargement, secretion. Gastrointestinal. Nausea, vomiting. Abdominal cramps, bloating. Cholestatic jaundice. Skin. Chloasma or melasma which may persist when drug is discontinued. Erythema multiforme. Erythema nodosum. Hemorrhagic eruption. Loss of scalp hair. Hirsutism. Eyes. Steepening of corneal curvature. Intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System. Headache, migraine, dizziness. Mental depression. Chorea. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight. Reduced carbohydrate tolerance. Aggravation of porphyria. Edema. Changes in libido. Associated with Methyltestosterone Endocrine and Urogenital: Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis (see WARNINGS ). Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors, II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Nervous System: Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Associated with Estrogens (See Warnings regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogenic therapy, including oral contraceptives: Genitourinary system. Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, change in menstrual flow. Dysmenorrhea. Premenstrual-like syndrome. Amenorrhea during and after treatment. Increase in size of uterine fibromyomata. Vaginal candidiasis. Change in cervical erosion and in degree of cervical secretion. Cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts. Tenderness, enlargement, secretion. Gastrointestinal. Nausea, vomiting. Abdominal cramps, bloating. Cholestatic jaundice. Skin. Chloasma or melasma which may persist when drug is discontinued. Erythema multiforme. Erythema nodosum. Hemorrhagic eruption. Loss of scalp hair. Hirsutism. Eyes. Steepening of corneal curvature. Intolerance to contact lenses. CNS. Headache, migraine, dizziness. Mental depression. Chorea. Miscellaneous. Increase or decrease in weight. Reduced carbohydrate tolerance. Aggravation of porphyria. Edema. Changes in libido. Associated with Methyltestosterone A. Endocrine and Urogenital. Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis (see WARNINGS). Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors, II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Nervous System: Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. Associated with Estrogens (See WARNINGS regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. Genitourinary System: Changes in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer; cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts: Tenderness; enlargement; pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. Cardiovascular: Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal: Nausea; vomiting; abdominal cramps; bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Skin: Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. Eyes: Retinal vascular thrombosis, steepening of corneal curvature, intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System: Headache, migraine, dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. Miscellaneous: Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthralgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides. Associated with Methyltestosterone Endocrine and Urogenital Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman, androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis. (See WARNINGS .) Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Central Nervous System: Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. Associated with Estrogens (See WARNINGS regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. Genitourinary System : Changes in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer; cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts: Tenderness; enlargement; pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. Cardiovascular : Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal : Nausea; vomiting; abdominal cramps; bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Skin : Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. Eyes : Retinal vascular thrombosis, steepening of corneal curvature, intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System : Headache, migraine, dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. Miscellaneous : Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthralgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides. Associated with Methyltestosterone Endocrine and Urogenital Female : The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman, androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances : Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal : Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis. (See WARNINGS .) Hematologic : Suppression of clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Central Nervous System : Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic : Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous : Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Metyltestosterone is classified as a schedule III Controlled Substance under the Anabolic Steroids Act of 1990."$$
"D. Drug Interactions Anticoagulants C-17 substituted derivatives of testosterone, such as methandrostenolone, have been reported to decrease the anticoagulant requirements of patients receiving oral anticoagulants. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when androgens are started or stopped. Oxyphenbutazone. Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. Insulin. In diabetic patients the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirements."$$
"Drug Interactions (Androgens) Anticoagulants: C-17 substituted derivatives of testosterone, such as methandrostenolone, have been reported to decrease the anticoagulant requirements of patients receiving oral anticoagulants. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when androgens are started or stopped. Oxyphenbutazone: Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. Insulin: In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirements."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants: C-17 substituted derivatives of testosterone, such as methandrostenolone, have been reported to decrease the anticoagulant requirements of patients receiving oral anticoagulants. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when androgens are started or stopped. Oxyphenbutazone: Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. Insulin: In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirements."$$
