$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.4) Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.5, 5.6, 5.11, 5.12) Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.13, 5.18) 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these events occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years).1 In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies (14.5)] . Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years).1 In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average 66.7 years of age), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study; HERS), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established CHD. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and PE), was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years3 [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted4 [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to postmenopausal estrogen therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo.6 Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trial, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms, requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years.7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.3 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.6)]. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.6)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.6)]. 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reaction and Angioedema Cases of anaphylaxis, which developed within minutes to hours after taking PREMARIN and require emergency medical management, have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Skin (hives, pruritis, swollen lips-tongue-face) and either respiratory tract (respiratory compromise) or gastrointestinal tract (abdominal pain, vomiting) involvement has been noted. Angioedema involving the tongue, larynx, face, hands, and feet requiring medical intervention has occurred postmarketing in patients taking PREMARIN. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis, or larynx, airway obstruction may occur. Patients who develop an anaphylactic reaction with or without angioedema after treatment with PREMARIN should not receive PREMARIN again. 5.8 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen, have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include an increased risk of breast cancer. 5.9 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogen therapy on blood pressure was not seen. 5.10 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.11 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.12 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.13 Fluid Retention Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac or renal dysfunction, warrant careful observation when estrogen alone is prescribed. 5.14 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in individuals with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.15 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.16 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.17 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.18 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. Laboratory parameters may be useful in guiding dosage for the treatment of hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, castration and primary ovarian failure. 5.19 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone levels as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay) or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease ( ) 5.4 Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs ( , , , ) 5.5 5.6 5.11 5.12 Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy ( , ) 5.13 5.18 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these events occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted . Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. [see ] Clinical Studies (14.5) Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years). 1 In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) . The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. [see ] Clinical Studies (14.5) 1 Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo . 2 [see Clinical Studies (14.5)] Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years). 1 In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years). An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 . 1 [see ] Clinical Studies (14.5) In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average 66.7 years of age), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study; HERS), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established CHD. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and PE), was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years . Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. 3 [see ] Clinical Studies (14.5) In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted . Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. 4 [see ] Clinical Studies (14.5) If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to postmenopausal estrogen therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer . [relative risk (RR) 0.80] 5 [see ] Clinical Studies (14.5) The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups . 6 [see ] Clinical Studies (14.5) Consistent with the WHI clinical trial, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms, requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years. In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 7 5.3 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years . 8 [see , and ] Use in Specific Populations (8.5) Clinical Studies (14.6) In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years 8 [see , and ]. Use in Specific Populations (8.5) Clinical Studies (14.6) When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women . 8 [see , and ] Use in Specific Populations (8.5) Clinical Studies (14.6) 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reaction and Angioedema Cases of anaphylaxis, which developed within minutes to hours after taking PREMARIN and require emergency medical management, have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Skin (hives, pruritis, swollen lips-tongue-face) and either respiratory tract (respiratory compromise) or gastrointestinal tract (abdominal pain, vomiting) involvement has been noted. Angioedema involving the tongue, larynx, face, hands, and feet requiring medical intervention has occurred postmarketing in patients taking PREMARIN. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis, or larynx, airway obstruction may occur. Patients who develop an anaphylactic reaction with or without angioedema after treatment with PREMARIN should not receive PREMARIN again. 5.8 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen, have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include an increased risk of breast cancer. 5.9 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogen therapy on blood pressure was not seen. 5.10 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.11 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.12 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T and T serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 4 3 5.13 Fluid Retention Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac or renal dysfunction, warrant careful observation when estrogen alone is prescribed. 5.14 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in individuals with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.15 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.16 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.17 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.18 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. Laboratory parameters may be useful in guiding dosage for the treatment of hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, castration and primary ovarian failure. 5.19 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone levels as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay) or T levels by radioimmunoassay. T resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T and free T concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. 4 3 3 4 3 Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. 2 Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.4) Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.5, 5.6, 5.9, 5.10) Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.11, 5.18) 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), stroke and myocardial infarction has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogens with or without progestins should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (for example, personal history of venous thromboembolism [VTE], obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in all women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year one and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg) versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years).1 Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal myocardial infarction [MI], silent MI, or CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE 0.625 mg compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years).1 In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763), average age 66.7 years, in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and pulmonary embolism [PE]) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted3 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogens should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and pulmonary embolism [PE]) was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years4 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer Endometrial hyperplasia (a possible precursor of endometrial cancer) has been reported to occur at a rate of approximately 1 percent or less with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in nonusers, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears to be associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin WHI substudy reported an increased risk of breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo.5 Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger and diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg). In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE (0.625 mg) was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] 6 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent nCI 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years.7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen-plus progestin and estrogen-only products has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer over multiple years of use. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.3 Probable Dementia In the estrogen plus progestin Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS), an ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study, after an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent nCI 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.7)]. In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) or placebo. In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study, after an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent nCI 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent nCI 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.7)]. 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in women with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in women receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include an increased risk of breast cancer. 5.8 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogen therapy on blood pressure was not seen. 5.9 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.10 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.11 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.12 Fluid Retention Estrogens plus progestins may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac or renal dysfunction, warrant careful observation when estrogens are prescribed. 5.13 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.14 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.15 Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema, particularly in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.16 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.17 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. 5.18 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay), or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma HDL and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced LDL cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.4) -Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia, or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.5, 5.6, 5.9, 5.10) -Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.11, 5.18) 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke, and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 woman-years).1 In the WHI estrogen-plus-progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as non-fatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years). In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average 66.7 years of age), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open-label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and PE) was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years3 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE was reported in women receiving CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted4 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women taking estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to postmenopausal estrogen therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years daily CE-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer (relative risk [RR] 0.80)5 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo6 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade, and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years.7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.3 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI, 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.4)]. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of four years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.4)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI, 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2 to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in women with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in women receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration, or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen, have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include a possible increased risk of breast cancer . 5.8 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogens on blood pressure was not seen. 5.9 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with preexisting hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.10 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.11 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.12 Fluid Retention Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as a cardiac or renal impairment, warrant careful observation when estrogen-alone is prescribed. 5.13 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.14 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.15 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.16 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.17 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. 5.18 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions 1.Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of anti-factor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. 2.Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone levels, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay) or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. 3.Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, (for example, corticosteroid binding globulin [CBG], sex hormone binding globulin [SHBG]) leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). 4.Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentration, and increased triglyceride levels. 5.Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.4) -Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.5, 5.6, 5.9, 5.10) -Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.11, 5.18) 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years).1 In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10, 000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as non-fatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death ) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years). In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average age 66.7 years of age), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and PE) was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years3 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE was reported in women receiving CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted4 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women taking estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to postmenopausal estrogen therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Breast cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer (relative risk [RR] 0.80)5 [see Clinical Studies (14. 3)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo6 [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77 - 3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years. 7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.3 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI, 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.4)]. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.4)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI, 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 ), and Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2 to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in women with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in women receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or renal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Addition of a Progestin when a Woman has not had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration, or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen, have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include a possible increased risk of breast cancer. 5.8 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogens on blood pressure was not seen. 5.9 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.10 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.11 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.12 Fluid Retention Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as a cardiac or renal impairment, warrant careful observation when estrogen-alone is prescribed. 5.13 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.14 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.15 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.16 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.17 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. 5.18 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of anti-factor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased TBG levels leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone levels, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay) or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentration, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.4) Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.5, 5.6, 5.9, 5.10) Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.11, 5.19) 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years).1 Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death) reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on CHD events was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years).1 In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763), average 66.7 years of age, in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE plus MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and PE) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted3 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years4 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups5 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] 6 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Endometrial Cancer Endometrial hyperplasia (a possible precursor of endometrial cancer) has been reported to occur at a rate of approximately 1 percent or less with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears to be associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years.7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.3 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI, 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI, 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in women with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in women receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen, have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include an increased risk of breast cancer. 5.8 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogen therapy on blood pressure was not seen. 5.9 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.10 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.11 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.12 Fluid Retention Estrogens plus progestins may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac or renal dysfunction, warrant careful observation when estrogens plus progestins are prescribed. 5.13 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.14 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.15 Anaphylactic Reaction and Angioedema Cases of anaphylaxis, which developed within minutes to hours after taking PREMPRO or PREMPHASE and require emergency medical management, have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Skin (hives, pruritis, swollen lips-tongue-face) and either respiratory tract (respiratory compromise) or gastrointestinal tract (abdominal pain, vomiting) involvement has been noted. Angioedema involving the tongue, larynx, face, hands, and feet requiring medical intervention has occurred postmarketing in patients taking PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis, or larynx, airway obstruction may occur. Patients who develop an anaphylactic reaction with or without angioedema after treatment with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE should not receive PREMPRO or PREMPHASE again. 5.16 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.17 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.18 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. 5.19 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay), or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.5) Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.6, 5.7, 5.10, 5.11) Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.12, 5.21) 5.1 Risks from Systemic Absorption Systemic absorption occurs with the use of PREMARIN Vaginal Cream. The warnings, precautions, and adverse reactions associated with oral PREMARIN treatment should be taken into account. 5.2 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) -alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg) -alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years).1 In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years).1 In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763), average 66.7 years of age, in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE plus MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and PE) was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) -alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years3 [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was observed during the first year and persisted4 [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.3 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears to be associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to postmenopausal estrogen therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. In a 52-week clinical trial using PREMARIN Vaginal Cream alone (0.5 g inserted twice weekly or daily for 21 days, then off for 7 days), there was no evidence of endometrial hyperplasia or endometrial carcinoma. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) -alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups6 [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trial, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not generally found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin therapy has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms, requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years.7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer . However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.4 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) -alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI, 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8. 5), and Clinical Studies (14.3)]. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8. 5), and Clinical Studies (14.3)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI, 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.3)]. 5.5 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.6 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in women with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.7 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.8 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration, or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen, have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include an increased risk of breast cancer. 5.9 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogen therapy on blood pressure was not seen. 5.10 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.11 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.12 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.13 Fluid Retention Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac or renal dysfunction, warrant careful observation when estrogen-alone is prescribed. 5.14 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.15 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.16 Anaphylactic Reaction and Angioedema Cases of anaphylaxis, which develop within minutes to hours after taking orally-administered PREMARIN and require emergency management, have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Skin (hives, pruritus, swollen lips-tongue-face) and either respiratory tract (respiratory compromise) or gastrointestinal tract (abdominal pain, vomiting) involvement has been noted. Angioedema involving the tongue, larynx, face, and feet requiring medical intervention has occurred postmarketing in patients taking orally-administered PREMARIN. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis, or larynx, airway obstruction may occur. Patients who develop an anaphylactic reaction with or without angioedema after treatment with oral PREMARIN should not receive oral PREMARIN again. 5.17 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.18 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.19 Effects on Barrier Contraception PREMARIN Vaginal Cream exposure has been reported to weaken latex condoms. The potential for PREMARIN Vaginal Cream to weaken and contribute to the failure of condoms, diaphragms, or cervical caps made of latex or rubber should be considered. 5.20 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. 5.21 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay) or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Women taking DUAVEE should not take progestins, additional estrogens or additional estrogen agonist/antagonists (5.1) Cardiovascular disorders, including venous thromboembolism, pulmonary embolism, stroke, and retinal vascular thrombosis (5.2, 5.6) Malignant neoplasms, including endometrial cancer, breast cancer, and ovarian cancer (5.3) Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.5) Discontinue estrogen if loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.6, 5.8, 5.9) Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.10, 5.17) 5.1 Drugs Containing Progestins, Estrogens or Estrogen Agonist/Antagonists DUAVEE contains conjugated estrogens and bazedoxifene, an estrogen agonist/antagonist. Women taking DUAVEE should not take progestins, additional estrogens or additional estrogen agonist/antagonists. 5.2 Cardiovascular Disorders Estrogen agonist/antagonists (including bazedoxifene, a component of DUAVEE) and estrogens individually are known to increase the risk of VTE. An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, DUAVEE should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or VTE (for example, personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily conjugated estrogens (CE) (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving conjugated estrogens (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years). Should a stroke occur or be suspected, DUAVEE should be discontinued immediately [see Contraindications (4)]. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal myocardial infarction, silent myocardial infarction, or CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years). Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE [DVT and pulmonary embolism (PE)] was increased for women receiving daily conjugated estrogens (0.625 mg)-alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. If feasible, DUAVEE should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. Because immobilization increases the risk for venous thromboembolic events independent of therapy, DUAVEE should be discontinued prior to and during prolonged immobilization (e.g., post-surgical recovery, prolonged bed rest) and DUAVEE therapy should be resumed only after the patient is fully ambulatory. In addition, women taking DUAVEE should be advised to move about periodically during travel involving prolonged immobilization. 5.3 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in women with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more of treatment. This risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. DUAVEE contains an estrogen agonist/antagonist. This component reduces the risk of endometrial hyperplasia that can occur with the conjugated estrogens component. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Women taking DUAVEE should not take additional estrogens as this may increase the risk of endometrial hyperplasia. Clinical surveillance of all women taking DUAVEE is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical study providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily conjugated estrogens (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily conjugated estrogen (0.625 mg)-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer (relative risk [RR] 0.80). The use of estrogen-alone has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. The effect of treatment with DUAVEE on the risk of breast cancer is unknown. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer In some epidemiological studies, the use of estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. The effect of treatment with DUAVEE on the risk of ovarian cancer is unknown. 5.4 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI, 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) and Clinical Studies (14.6)]. 5.5 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, DUAVEE should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports in women receiving estrogens, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical study, a generalized effect of estrogens on blood pressure was not seen. 5.8 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, treatment with estrogens may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of DUAVEE if pancreatitis occurs. 5.9 Hepatic Impairment and Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice DUAVEE has not been studied in women with impaired liver function or past history of cholestatic jaundice. Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. On average, women with hepatic impairment treated with bazedoxifene alone showed a 4.3-fold increase in overall exposures compared with controls [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised; and in the case of recurrence, DUAVEE should be discontinued. Use of DUAVEE in patients with hepatic impairment is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.10 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.11 Fluid Retention Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention. Because of this, patients who have conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac dysfunction or renal impairment, warrant careful observation when estrogens are prescribed. Use of DUAVEE in patients with renal impairment is not recommended [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. 5.12 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.13 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.14 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogens may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine or porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.15 Premenopausal Women There is no indication for premenopausal use of DUAVEE. The efficacy and safety of DUAVEE in premenopausal women have not been established, and its use is not recommended. 5.16 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms. 5.17 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay), or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label: Cardiovascular Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Malignant Neoplasms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Gallbladder Disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Hypertriglyceridemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] In four prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trials the common adverse reactions (incidence >= 5%) were muscle spasms, nausea, diarrhea, dyspepsia, abdominal pain upper, oropharyngeal pain, dizziness, and neck pain (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety of conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifene was evaluated in four Phase 3 clinical trials ranging from 12 weeks to 24 months in duration and enrolling 6,210 postmenopausal women age 40 to 75 years (mean age 55 years). A total of 1,224 patients were treated with DUAVEE and 1,069 patients received placebo. Women enrolled in Studies 1 and 2 received calcium (600-1200 mg) and vitamin D (200-400 IU) daily, while women in Studies 3 and 4 received no calcium and vitamin D supplementation as part of the protocol. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 0.0% in the DUAVEE group and 0.2% in the placebo group. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 3.5% in the DUAVEE group and 4.8% in the placebo group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was 7.5% in the DUAVEE group and 10.0% in the placebo group. The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were hot flush, abdominal pain upper, and nausea. The most commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5%) more frequently reported in women treated with DUAVEE than placebo are presented in Table 1. Table 1: Adverse Reactions (Incidence >= 5%) More Common in the DUAVEE Treatment Group in Placebo-controlled Trials DUAVEE (N=1224) n (%) Placebo (N=1069) n (%) Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 100 (8) 58 (5) Diarrhea 96 (8) 57 (5) Dyspepsia 84 (7) 59 (6) Abdominal pain upper 81 (7) 58 (5) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Muscle spasms 110 (9) 63 (6) Neck pain 62 (5) 46 (4) Nervous system disorders Dizziness 65 (5) 37 (3) Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Oropharyngeal pain 80 (7) 61 (6) Venous thromboembolism: In the clinical studies with DUAVEE, the reporting rates for venous thromboembolism (deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, and retinal vein thrombosis) were low in all treatment groups. Adverse reactions of venous thromboembolism were reported in 0.0% of patients treated with DUAVEE and 0.1% of patients treated with placebo. Due to the low rate of events in both groups, it is not possible to conclude that the risk of venous thromboembolism with DUAVEE is different from that seen with other estrogen therapies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in labeling: Cardiovascular Disorders [see , ] Boxed Warning Warnings and Precautions (5.1) Malignant Neoplasms [see , ] Boxed Warning Warnings and Precautions (5.2) Most common adverse reactions (>= 5 percent) are: abdominal pain, asthenia, pain, back pain, headache, flatulence, nausea, depression, insomnia, breast pain, endometrial hyperplasia, leucorrhea, vaginal hemorrhage, and vaginitis. ( ) 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. During the first year of a 2-year clinical trial with 2,333 postmenopausal women with a uterus between 40 and 65 years of age (88 percent Caucasian), 1,012 women were treated with conjugated estrogens, and 332 were treated with placebo. Table 1 summarizes treatment-related adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >= 1 percent in any treatment group. Table 1: TREATMENT RELATED ADVERSE REACTIONS AT A FREQUENCY >= 1 PERCENT PREMARIN 0.625 mg (n=348) PREMARIN 0.45 mg (n=338) PREMARIN 0.3 mg (n=326) Placebo (n=332) Body as a whole Abdominal pain 38 (11) 28 (8) 30 (9) 21 (6) Asthenia 16 (5) 8 (2) 14 (4) 3 (1) Back pain 18 (5) 11 (3) 13 (4) 4 (1) Chest pain 2 (1) 3 (1) 4 (1) 2 (1) Generalized edema 7 (2) 6 (2) 4 (1) 8 (2) Headache 45 (13) 47 (14) 44 (13) 46 (14) Moniliasis 5 (1) 4 (1) 4 (1) 1 (0) Pain 17 (5) 10 (3) 12 (4) 14 (4) Pelvic pain 10 (3) 9 (3) 8 (2) 4 (1) Cardiovascular system Hypertension 4 (1) 4 (1) 7 (2) 5 (2) Migraine 7 (2) 1 (0) 0 3 (1) Palpitation 3 (1) 3 (1) 3 (1) 4 (1) Vasodilatation 2 (1) 2 (1) 3 (1) 5 (2) Digestive system Constipation 7 (2) 6 (2) 4 (1) 3 (1) Diarrhea 4 (1) 5 (1) 5 (2) 8 (2) Dyspepsia 7 (2) 5 (1) 6 (2) 14 (4) Eructation 1 (0) 1 (0) 4 (1) 1 (0) Flatulence 22 (6) 18 (5) 13 (4) 8 (2) Increased appetite 4 (1) 1 (0) 1 (0) 2 (1) Nausea 16 (5) 10 (3) 15 (5) 16 (5) Metabolic and nutritional Hyperlipidemia 2 (1) 4 (1) 3 (1) 2 (1) Peripheral edema 5 (1) 2 (1) 4 (1) 3 (1) Weight gain 11 (3) 10 (3) 8 (2) 14 (4) Musculoskeletal system Arthralgia 6 (2) 3 (1) 2 (1) 5 (2) Leg cramps 10 (3) 5 (1) 9 (3) 4 (1) Myalgia 2 (1) 1 (0) 4 (1) 1 (0) Nervous system Anxiety 6 (2) 4 (1) 2 (1) 4 (1) Depression 17 (5) 15 (4) 10 (3) 17 (5) Dizziness 9 (3) 7 (2) 4 (1) 5 (2) Emotional lability 3 (1) 4 (1) 5 (2) 8 (2) Hypertonia 1 (0) 1 (0) 5 (2) 3 (1) Insomnia 16 (5) 10 (3) 13 (4) 14 (4) Nervousness 9 (3) 12 (4) 2 (1) 6 (2) Skin and appendages Acne 3 (1) 1 (0) 8 (2) 3 (1) Alopecia 6 (2) 6 (2) 5 (2) 2 (1) Hirsutism 4 (1) 2 (1) 1 (0) 0 Pruritus 11 (3) 11 (3) 10 (3) 3 (1) Rash 6 (2) 3 (1) 1 (0) 2 (1) Skin discoloration 4 (1) 2 (1) 0 1 (0) Sweating 4 (1) 1 (0) 3 (1) 4 (1) Urogenital system Breast disorder 6 (2) 3 (1) 3 (1) 6 (2) Breast enlargement 3 (1) 4 (1) 7 (2) 3 (1) Breast neoplasm 4 (1) 4 (1) 7 (2) 7 (2) Breast pain 37 (11) 39 (12) 24 (7) 26 (8) Cervix disorder 8 (2) 4 (1) 5 (2) 0 Dysmenorrhea 12 (3) 10 (3) 4 (1) 2 (1) Endometrial disorder 4 (1) 2 (1) 2 (1) 0 Endometrial hyperplasia 16 (5) 8 (2) 1 (0) 0 Leukorrhea 17 (5) 17 (5) 12 (4) 6 (2) Metrorrhagia 11 (3) 4 (1) 3 (1) 1 (0) Urinary tract infection 1 (0) 2 (1) 1 (0) 4 (1) Uterine fibroids enlarged 6 (2) 1 (0) 2 (1) 2 (1) Uterine spasm 11 (3) 5 (1) 3 (1) 2 (1) Vaginal dryness 1 (0) 2 (1) 1 (0) 6 (2) Vaginal hemorrhage 46 (13) 13 (4) 6 (2) 0 Vaginal moniliasis 14 (4) 10 (3) 12 (4) 5 (2) Vaginitis 18 (5) 7 (2) 9 (3) 1 (0) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PREMARIN. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible always to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding; dysmenorrheal or pelvic pain, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis, change in cervical secretion, ovarian cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer, leukorrhea. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, discharge, galactorrhea, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer, gynecomastia in males. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, stroke, increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating, cholestatic jaundice, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas, ischemic colitis. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, loss of scalp hair, hirsutism, pruritus, rash. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. Central nervous system Headache, migraine, dizziness , mental depression, nervousness, mood disturbances, irritability, exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia, possible growth potentiation of benign meningioma. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight, glucose intolerance, aggravation of porphyria, edema, arthralgias, leg cramps, changes in libido, urticaria, exacerbation of asthma, increased triglycerides, hypersensitivity."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in labeling: Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Malignant Neoplasms [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Most common adverse reactions (>= 5 percent) are: abdominal pain, asthenia, pain, back pain, headache, flatulence, nausea, depression, insomnia, breast pain, endometrial hyperplasia, leucorrhea, vaginal hemorrhage, and vaginitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. During the first year of a 2-year clinical trial with 2,333 postmenopausal women with a uterus between 40 and 65 years of age (88 percent Caucasian), 1,012 women were treated with conjugated estrogens, and 332 were treated with placebo. Table 1 summarizes treatment-related adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >= 1 percent in any treatment group. Table 1: TREATMENT RELATED ADVERSE REACTIONS AT A FREQUENCY >= 1 PERCENT PREMARIN 0.625 mg (n=348) PREMARIN 0.45 mg (n=338) PREMARIN 0.3 mg (n=326) Placebo (n=332) Body as a whole Abdominal pain 38 (11) 28 (8) 30 (9) 21 (6) Asthenia 16 (5) 8 (2) 14 (4) 3 (1) Back pain 18 (5) 11 (3) 13 (4) 4 (1) Chest pain 2 (1) 3 (1) 4 (1) 2 (1) Generalized edema 7 (2) 6 (2) 4 (1) 8 (2) Headache 45 (13) 47 (14) 44 (13) 46 (14) Moniliasis 5 (1) 4 (1) 4 (1) 1 (0) Pain 17 (5) 10 (3) 12 (4) 14 (4) Pelvic pain 10 (3) 9 (3) 8 (2) 4 (1) Cardiovascular system Hypertension 4 (1) 4 (1) 7 (2) 5 (2) Migraine 7 (2) 1 (0) 0 3 (1) Palpitation 3 (1) 3 (1) 3 (1) 4 (1) Vasodilatation 2 (1) 2 (1) 3 (1) 5 (2) Digestive system Constipation 7 (2) 6 (2) 4 (1) 3 (1) Diarrhea 4 (1) 5 (1) 5 (2) 8 (2) Dyspepsia 7 (2) 5 (1) 6 (2) 14 (4) Eructation 1 (0) 1 (0) 4 (1) 1 (0) Flatulence 22 (6) 18 (5) 13 (4) 8 (2) Increased appetite 4 (1) 1 (0) 1 (0) 2 (1) Nausea 16 (5) 10 (3) 15 (5) 16 (5) Metabolic and nutritional Hyperlipidemia 2 (1) 4 (1) 3 (1) 2 (1) Peripheral edema 5 (1) 2 (1) 4 (1) 3 (1) Weight gain 11 (3) 10 (3) 8 (2) 14 (4) Musculoskeletal system Arthralgia 6 (2) 3 (1) 2 (1) 5 (2) Leg cramps 10 (3) 5 (1) 9 (3) 4 (1) Myalgia 2 (1) 1 (0) 4 (1) 1 (0) Nervous system Anxiety 6 (2) 4 (1) 2 (1) 4 (1) Depression 17 (5) 15 (4) 10 (3) 17 (5) Dizziness 9 (3) 7 (2) 4 (1) 5 (2) Emotional lability 3 (1) 4 (1) 5 (2) 8 (2) Hypertonia 1 (0) 1 (0) 5 (2) 3 (1) Insomnia 16 (5) 10 (3) 13 (4) 14 (4) Nervousness 9 (3) 12 (4) 2 (1) 6 (2) Skin and appendages Acne 3 (1) 1 (0) 8 (2) 3 (1) Alopecia 6 (2) 6 (2) 5 (2) 2 (1) Hirsutism 4 (1) 2 (1) 1 (0) 0 Pruritus 11 (3) 11 (3) 10 (3) 3 (1) Rash 6 (2) 3 (1) 1 (0) 2 (1) Skin discoloration 4 (1) 2 (1) 0 1 (0) Sweating 4 (1) 1 (0) 3 (1) 4 (1) Urogenital system Breast disorder 6 (2) 3 (1) 3 (1) 6 (2) Breast enlargement 3 (1) 4 (1) 7 (2) 3 (1) Breast neoplasm 4 (1) 4 (1) 7 (2) 7 (2) Breast pain 37 (11) 39 (12) 24 (7) 26 (8) Cervix disorder 8 (2) 4 (1) 5 (2) 0 Dysmenorrhea 12 (3) 10 (3) 4 (1) 2 (1) Endometrial disorder 4 (1) 2 (1) 2 (1) 0 Endometrial hyperplasia 16 (5) 8 (2) 1 (0) 0 Leukorrhea 17 (5) 17 (5) 12 (4) 6 (2) Metrorrhagia 11 (3) 4 (1) 3 (1) 1 (0) Urinary tract infection 1 (0) 2 (1) 1 (0) 4 (1) Uterine fibroids enlarged 6 (2) 1 (0) 2 (1) 2 (1) Uterine spasm 11 (3) 5 (1) 3 (1) 2 (1) Vaginal dryness 1 (0) 2 (1) 1 (0) 6 (2) Vaginal hemorrhage 46 (13) 13 (4) 6 (2) 0 Vaginal moniliasis 14 (4) 10 (3) 12 (4) 5 (2) Vaginitis 18 (5) 7 (2) 9 (3) 1 (0) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PREMARIN. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible always to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding; dysmenorrheal or pelvic pain, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis, change in cervical secretion, ovarian cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer, leukorrhea. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, discharge, galactorrhea, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer, gynecomastia in males. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, stroke, increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating, cholestatic jaundice, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas, ischemic colitis. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, loss of scalp hair, hirsutism, pruritus, rash. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. Central nervous system Headache, migraine, dizziness , mental depression, nervousness, mood disturbances, irritability, exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia, possible growth potentiation of benign meningioma. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight, glucose intolerance, aggravation of porphyria, edema, arthralgias, leg cramps, changes in libido, urticaria, exacerbation of asthma, increased triglycerides, hypersensitivity."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: -Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warnings, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Malignant Neoplasms [see Boxed Warnings, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] The most common adverse reactions (>=10%) are abdominal pain, headache, pain, nausea, and breast pain (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva Pharmaceuticals at 1-888-483-8279 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a 12-week clinical trial, 209 postmenopausal women with vasomotor symptoms were treated with ENJUVIA. Adverse reactions that occurred in the study at a rate greater than or equal to 3% and greater than placebo are summarized in Table 1 . Table 1: Number (%) of Women Reporting Adverse Reactions with >=3 Percent Occurrence Rate and Greater than Placebo by Body System and Treatment Group Body System/Adverse Reaction 0.3 mg n=68 0.625 mg n=72 1.25 mg n=69 Placebo n=72 Number of Patients in Safety Sample (%) 68 (100) 72 (100) 69 (100) 72 (100) Number of Patients with Adverse Reactions (%) 49 (72) 55 (76) 56 (81) 51 (71) Number of Patients without Adverse Reactions (%) 19 (28) 17 (24) 13 (19) 21 (29) Body as a Whole Abdominal Pain 3 (4) 11 (15) 3 (4) 7 (10) Accidental Injury 6 (9) 2 (3) 3 (4) 5 (7) Asthenia 2 (3) 3 (4) 2 (3) 0 Chest Pain 2 (3) 3 (4) 0 0 Chills 0 3 (4) 1 (1) 1 (1) Flu Syndrome 4 (6) 3 (4) 5 (7) 3 (4) Headache 10 (15) 18 (25) 11 (16) 15 (21) Pain 10 (15) 14 (19) 7 (10) 6 (8) Digestive System Constipation 3 (4) 2 (3) 1 (1) 2 (3) Diarrhea 4 (6) 2 (3) 3 (4) 4 (6) Flatulence 3 (4) 5 (7) 3 (4) 2 (3) Nausea 5 (7) 7 (10) 8 (12) 6 (8) Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Peripheral Edema 1 (2) 3 (4) 3 (4) 2 (3) Nervous System Depression 2 (3) 3 (4) 1 (1) 1 (1) Dizziness 5 (7) 3 (4) 1 (1) 3 (4) Emotional Lability 2 (3) 3 (4) 1 (1) 1 (1) Paresthesia 0 4 (6) 1 (1) 0 Respiratory System Bronchitis 0 3 (4) 5 (7) 3 (4) Cough Increased 1 (2) 2 (3) 3 (4) 2 (3) Pharyngitis 3 (4) 2 (3) 0 0 Rhinitis 3 (4) 4 (6) 5 (7) 4 (6) Sinusitis 2 (3) 3 (4) 5 (7) 2 (3) Skin and Appendages Acne 0 3 (4) 1 (1) 0 Fungal Dermatitis 1 (2) 0 3 (4) 1 (1) Pruritus 2 (3) 2 (3) 4 (6) 3 (4) Urogenital System Breast Pain 0 9 (13) 10 (15) 3 (4) Dysmenorrhea 1 (2) 6 (8) 1 (1) 2 (3) Vaginitis 1 (2) 5 (7) 2 (3) 3 (4) In a second 12-week clinical trial, 310 women with symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy were treated (154 women with ENJUVIA 0.3 mg tablets and 156 women with placebo). Adverse reactions that occurred in the study at a rate greater than or equal to 3% and greater than placebo are summarized in Table 2 . Table 2: Number (%) of Women Reporting Adverse Reactions with >=3 Percent Occurrence Rate and Greater than Placebo by Body System and Treatment Group Body System/Adverse Reaction 0.3 mg n=154 Placebo n=156 Number of Patients in Safety Sample (%) 154 (100) 156 (100) Number of Patients with Adverse Reactions (%) 83 (54) 74 (47) Number of Patients without Adverse Reactions (%) 71 (46) 82 (53) Infections and Infestations Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 6 (4) 4 (3) Sinusitis 5 (3) 2 (1) Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Breast Tenderness 6 (4) 1 (1) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Back Pain 6 (4) 2 (1) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ENJUVIA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal Disorders: abdominal discomfort, abdominal distension, nausea Immune System Disorders: anaphylactic reaction, hypersensitivity Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: muscle spasms Nervous System Disorders: headache, dizziness Psychiatric disorders: insomnia Reproductive system and Breast Disorders: breast pain, breast tenderness Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia, rash, urticaria Vascular Disorders: deep vein thrombosis, thrombosis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: -Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warning, Warning and Precautions (5.1)] -Malignant Neoplasms [see Boxed Warning, Warning and Precautions (5.2)] The most common adverse reactions (> 10%) are headache, paresthesia, breast pain, abdominal pain, endometrial thickening, metrorrhagia, dizziness, pain, leg cramps, dyspepsia, leukorrhea, vaginitis and nausea (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Teva Pharmaceuticals at 1-888-483-8279 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a 12-week clinical trial that included 72 women treated with 0.625 mg and 2 x 0.625 mg Cenestin and 48 women treated with placebo, adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >= 5 percent are summarized in Table 1. Table 1: Number (%) of Patients with Adverse Reactions with >= 5 Percent Occurrence Rate By Body System and Treatment Group Body System Adverse Reaction Cenestina 0.625 mg and 2 x 0.625 mg n=72 Placebo n=48 Total n=120 Any Adverse Reaction (%) 68 (94) 43 (90) 111 (93) Body As A Whole Abdominal Pain 20 (28) 11 (23) 31 (26) Asthenia 24 (33) 20 (42) 44 (37) Headache 49 (68) 32 (67) 81 (68) Pain 8 (11) 9 (19) 17 (14) Digestive System Dyspepsia 7 (10) 3 (6) 10 (8) Flatulence 21 (29) 14 (29) 35 (29) Nausea 13 (18) 9 (19) 22 (18) Vomiting 5 (7) 1 (2) 6 (5) Metabolic and Nutritional Peripheral Edema 7 (10) 6 (13) 13 (11) Nervous System Depression 20 (28) 18 (38) 38 (32) Dizziness 8 (11) 5 (10) 13 (11) Insomnia 30 (42) 23 (48) 53 (44) Leg Cramps 7 (10) 3 (6) 10 (8) Paresthesia 24 (33) 15 (31) 39 (33) Vertigo 12 (17) 12 (25) 24 (20) Urogenital System 21 (29) 7 (15) 28 (23) Breast Pain 4 (6) 3 (6) 7 (6) Dysmenorrhea 10 (14) 3 (6) 13 (11) Metrorrhagia 10 (14) 3 (6) 13 (11) In a second 12-week clinical trial that included 52 women treated with 0.45 mg Cenestin and 51 women treated with placebo, adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >5 percent are summarized in Table 2. Table 2: Number (%) of Patients with a >= 5 Percent Occurrence Rate by Body System and Treatment Group Body System and Term Cenestin 0.45 mg Placebo Any Adverse Reaction (%) 40 (75.5%) 39 (76.5%) Body As A Whole 20 (37.7%) 24 (47.1%) Asthenia 6 (11.3%) 7 (13.7%) Headache 6 (11.3%) 8 (15.7%) Infection 1 (1.9%) 6 (11.8%) Pain 6 (11.3%) 1 (2.0%) Pain abdominal 5 (9.4%) 3 (5.9%) Cardiovascular 5 (9.4%) 10 (19.6%) Palpitations 3 (5.7%) 3 (5.9%) Vasodilations 2 (3.8%) 4 (7.8%) Digestive 8 (15.1%) 7 (13.7%) Nausea 5 (9.4%) 2 (3.9%) Metabolic and Nutritional 5 (9.4%) 3 (5.9%) Weight increase 3 (5.7%) 2 (3.9%) Musculoskeletal 5 (9.4%) 6 (11.8%) Arthralgia 5 (9.4%) 5 (9.8%) Myalgia 2 (3.8%) 6 (11.8%) Neurological 15 (28.3%) 19 (37.3%) Anxiety 3 (5.7%) 1 (2.0%) Insomnia 3 (5.7%) 5 (9.8%) Nervousness 2 (3.8%) 7 (13.7%) Paresthesia 4 (7.5%) 3 (5.9%) Vertigo 3 (5.7%) 3 (5.9%) Respiratory 10 (18.9%) 6 (11.8%) Rhinitis 3 (5.7%) 2 (3.9%) Urogenital 19 (35.8%) 7 (13.7%) Endometrial thickening 10 (18.9%) 4 (7.8%) Vaginitis 4 (7.5%) 1 (2.0%) If a subject experiences the same event more than once, the first occurrenceis tabulated. In a 16-week clinical trial that included 36 women treated with 0.3 mg Cenestin and 34 women treated with placebo, adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >5 percent are summarized in Table 3. Table 3: Number (%) of Patients with Adverse Reactions with >= 5 Percent Occurrence Rate By Body System and Treatment Group Body System and Term Cenestin 0.30 mg Placebo Body as a Whole 22 (60) 13 (38) Allergic Reaction 3 (8) 1 (3) Flu Syndrome 3 (8) 1 (3) Injury Accident 2 (5) 1 (3) Back Pain 2 (5) 1 (3) Cyst 2 (5) 0 (0) Asthenia 3 (8) 2 (6) Digestive 10 (27) 8 (24) Nausea 4 (11) 2 (6) Dyspepsia 2 (5) 1 (3) Vomiting 3 (8) 0 (0) Increased Appetite 2 (5) 0 (0) Neurological 7 (19) 7 (21) Dizziness 3 (8) 0 (0) Urogenital 22 (60) 16 (47) Leukorrhea 12 (32) 5 (15) Vaginitis 9 (24) 5 (15) Urinary Incontinence 3 (8) 1 (3) Metrorrhagia 2 (5) 0 (0) Urinary Frequency 2 (5) 0 (0) 6.2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of Cenestin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal distension, nausea Investigations: weight increased Metabolism & Nutrition Disorders: fluid retention Neoplasms: breast cancer Nervous System Disorders: headache, insomnia, somnolence Psychiatric Disorder: depression Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: breast enlargement, breast pain, breast swelling, breast tenderness Skin & Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia, pruritus, pruritus generalized, rash pruritic, rash"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Breast Cancer [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions, Malignant Neoplasms (5.2)] In a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, the most common adverse reactions >= 5 percent are: vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, vaginal monoliasis, dysmenorrhea, breast enlargement, breast pain and leg cramps (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc at 1-800-934-5556 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a 1-year clinical trial that included 678 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPRO and 351 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPHASE, the following adverse events occurred at a rate >= 5 percent, see Table 1. TABLE 1: ALL TREATMENT EMERGENT STUDY EVENTS REGARDLESS OF DRUG RELATIONSHIP REPORTED AT A FREQUENCY >= 5% PREMPRO PREMPRO PREMPHASE Body System 0.625 mg/2.5 mg continuous 0.625 mg/5 mg continuous 0.625 mg/5 mg sequential Adverse event (n = 340) (n = 338) (n = 351) Body As A Whole abdominal pain 16% 21% 23% accidental injury 5% 4% 5% asthenia 6% 8% 10% back pain 14% 13% 16% flu syndrome 10% 13% 12% headache 36% 28% 37% infection 16% 16% 18% pain 11% 13% 12% pelvic pain 4% 5% 5% Digestive System diarrhea 6% 6% 5% dyspepsia 6% 6% 5% flatulence 8% 9% 8% nausea 11% 9% 11% Metabolic and Nutritional peripheral edema 4% 4% 3% Musculoskeletal System arthralgia 9% 7% 9% leg cramps 3% 4% 5% Nervous System depression 6% 11% 11% dizziness 5% 3% 4% hypertonia 4% 3% 3% Respiratory System pharyngitis 11% 11% 13% rhinitis 8% 6% 8% sinusitis 8% 7% 7% Skin and Appendages pruritus 10% 8% 5% rash 4% 6% 4% Urogenital System breast pain 33% 38% 32% cervix disorder 4% 4% 5% dysmenorrhea 8% 5% 13% leukorrhea 6% 5% 9% vaginal hemorrhage 2% 1% 3% vaginitis 7% 7% 5% During the first year of a 2-year clinical trial with postmenopausal women between 40 and 65 years of age (88% Caucasian), 989 postmenopausal women received continuous regimens of PREMPRO, and 332 received placebo tablets. Table 2 summarizes adverse events that occurred at a rate >= 5 percent in at least 1 treatment group. TABLE 2: PERCENT OF PATIENTS WITH TREATMENT EMERGENT STUDY EVENTS REGARDLESS OF DRUG RELATIONSHIP REPORTED AT A FREQUENCY >= 5% DURING STUDY YEAR 1 Body System Prempro 0.625 mg/ 2.5 mg continuous Prempro 0.45 mg/ 1.5 mg continuous Prempro 0.3 mg/ 1.5 mg continuous Placebo daily Adverse event (n = 331) (n = 331) (n = 327) (n = 332) Any adverse event 92% 89% 90% 85% Body As A Whole abdominal pain 17% 16% 13% 11% accidental injury 10% 9% 9% 9% asthenia 8% 8% 6% 5% back pain 12% 13% 12% 12% flu syndrome 8% 11% 10% 11% headache 28% 29% 33% 28% infection 21% 19% 18% 22% pain 14% 15% 20% 18% Digestive System diarrhea 7% 7% 6% 6% dyspepsia 8% 8% 8% 14% flatulence 7% 8% 5% 3% nausea 7% 10% 8% 9% Musculoskeletal System arthralgia 9% 13% 10% 12% leg cramps 7% 5% 4% 2% myalgia 5% 5% 4% 8% Nervous System anxiety 4% 5% 2% 4% depression 11% 5% 8% 7% dizziness 3% 5% 5% 5% insomnia 6% 7% 6% 10% nervousness 3% 2% 2% 2% Respiratory System cough increased 8% 5% 6% 4% pharyngitis 11% 8% 9% 11% rhinitis 8% 9% 10% 13% sinusitis 8% 8% 10% 7% upper respiratory infection 10% 9% 11% 11% Skin and Appendages pruritus 4% 5% 5% 2% Urogenital System breast enlargement 5% 3% 2% <1% breast pain 26% 21% 13% 9% dysmenorrhea 5% 6% 3% <1% leukorrhea 4% 5% 3% 3% vaginal hemorrhage 6% 4% 2% 0% vaginal moniliasis 8% 7% 4% 2% vaginitis 5% 6% 4% 1% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary System Abnormal uterine bleeding, dysmenorrhea/pelvic pain, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis, vaginal candidiasis, amenorrhea, changes in cervical secretion, ovarian cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, superficial thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, stroke, increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating, cholestatic jaundice, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, changes in appetite, ischemic colitis. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, loss of scalp hair, hirsutism, pruritus, urticaria, rash, acne. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance of contact lenses. Central Nervous System (CNS) Headache, migraine, dizziness, mental depression, exacerbation of chorea, mood disturbances, anxiety, irritability, exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia, growth potentiation of benign meningioma. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight, arthralgia, glucose intolerance, edema, changes in libido, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions, exacerbation of asthma, increased triglycerides, hypersensitivity. Additional postmarketing adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving other forms of hormone therapy."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Malignant Neoplasms [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] In two prospective, randomized clinical studies, the most common adverse reactions > 5 percent are abdominal pain, asthenia, back pain, headache, flatulence, nausea, depression, pruritus, breast pain, dysmenorrhea, and leukorrhea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a 1-year clinical trial that included 678 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPRO and 351 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPHASE, the following adverse reactions occurred at a rate >= 1 percent, see Table 1. TABLE 1: ALL TREATMENT RELATED ADVERSE REACTIONS AT A FREQUENCY >= 1 PERCENT Body System PREMPRO 0.625 mg/2.5 mg continuous PREMPRO 0.625 mg/5 mg continuous PREMPHASE 0.625 mg/5 mg sequential Adverse event (n = 340) (n = 338) (n = 351) Body As A Whole Abdominal pain 35 (10%) 51 (15%) 58 (17%) Asthenia 13 (4%) 18 (5%) 21 (6%) Back pain 19 (6%) 16 (5%) 23 (7%) Chest pain 5 (1%) 4 (1%) 4 (1%) Flu syndrome 1 (<1%) 1 (<1%) 4 (1%) Generalized edema 12 (4%) 12 (4%) 8 (2%) Headache 64 (19%) 52 (15%) 66 (19%) Infection 2 (<1%) 4 (1)% 0 Moniliasis 4 (1%) 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) Pain 12 (4%) 14 (4%) 15 (4%) Pelvic pain 11 (3%) 13 (4%) 16 (5%) Cardiovascular System Hypertension 7 (2%) 7 (2%) 6 (2%) Migraine 6 (2%) 8 (2%) 7 (2%) Palpitation 2 (<1%) 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) Vasodilatation 2 (<1%) 7 (2%) 2 (<1%) Digestive System Diarrhea 4 (1%) 3 (<1%) 7 (2%) Dyspepsia 5 (1%) 5 (1%) 7 (2%) Eructation 0 2 (<1%) 4 (1%) Flatulence 25 (7%) 27 (8%) 24 (7%) Increased appetite 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) 5 (1%) Nausea 26 (8%) 19 (6%) 26 (7%) Metabolic and Nutritional Edema 5 (1%) 6 (2%) 3 (<1%) Glucose tolerance decreased 2 (<1%) 5 (1%) 4 (1%) Peripheral edema 11 (3%) 10 (3%) 11 (3%) Weight gain 9 (3%) 10 (3%) 11 (3%) Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 6 (2%) 2 (<1%) 7 (2%) Leg cramps 8 (2%) 11 (3%) 12 (3%) Nervous System Depression 14 (4%) 26 (8%) 29 (8%) Dizziness 9 (3%) 8 (2%) 7 (2%) Emotional lability 5 (1%) 5 (1%) 6 (2%) Hypertonia 4 (1%) 4 (1%) 7 (2%) Insomnia 7 (2%) 6 (2%) 4 (1%) Nervousness 4 (1%) 9 (3%) 6 (2%) Skin and Appendages Acne 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) 4 (1%) Alopecia 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) 0 Dry skin 2 (<1%) 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) Pruritus 20 (6%) 18 (5%) 13 (4%) Rash 8 (2%) 6 (2%) 7 (2%) Sweating 2 (<1%) 4 (1%) 2 (<1%) Urogenital System Breast engorgement 5 (1%) 5 (1%) 0 Breast enlargement 14 (4%) 14 (4%) 14 (4%) Breast neoplasm 2 (<1%) 2 (<1%) 4 (1%) Breast pain 110 (32%) 123 (36%) 109 (31%) Cervix disorder 10 (3%) 6 (2%) 10 (3%) Dysmenorrhea 26 (8%) 18 (5%) 44 (13%) Leukorrhea 19 (6%) 13 (4%) 29 (8%) Menstrual disorder 7 (2%) 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) Menorrhagia 0 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) Metrorrhagia 13 (4%) 5 (1%) 7 (1%) Papanicolaou smear suspicious 5 (1%) 0 8 (2%) Urinary incontinence 4 (1%) 2 (<1%) 1 (<1%) Uterine spasm 7 (2%) 4 (1%) 7 (2%) Vaginal hemorrhage 5 (1%) 3 (<1%) 8 (2%) Vaginal moniliasis 5 (1%) 6 (2%) 7 (2%) Vaginitis 13 (4%) 13 (4%) 10 (3%) In addition, phargyngitis and sinusitis were reported as two of the more frequent adverse events (>5 percent) in the PREMPRO clinical study. For pharyngitis, of the 121 events, six events were considered by the investigator causally related to study drug. For sinusitis, of the 73 events, one event was considered as casually related to study drug. During the first year of a 2-year clinical trial with postmenopausal women between 40 and 65 years of age (88 percent Caucasian), 989 postmenopausal women received continuous regimens of PREMPRO, and 332 received placebo tablets. Table 2 summarizes adverse reactions that occurred at a rate >= 1 percent in at least 1 treatment group. TABLE 2: ALL TREATMENT RELATED ADVERSE REACTIONS AT A FREQUENCY OF >= 1 PERCENT Body System Adverse event PREMPRO 0.625/2.5 continuous (N=331) PREMPRO 0.45/1.5 continuous (N=331) PREMPRO 0.3/1.5 continuous (N=327) PLACEBO daily (N=332) Any adverse event 214 (65) 208 (63) 188 (57) 164 (49) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 38 (11) 33 (10) 24 (7) 21 (6) Asthenia 11 (3) 11 (3) 12 (4) 3 (1) Back pain 12 (4) 12 (4) 8 (2) 4 (1) Chest pain 4 (1) 2 (1) 1 (0) 2 (1) Generalized edema 7 (2) 5 (2) 6 (2) 8 (2) Headache 45 (14) 45 (14) 57 (17) 46 (14) Moniliasis 3 (1) 6 (2) 4 (1) 1 (0) Pain 9 (3) 10 (3) 17 (5) 14 (4) Pelvic pain 9 (3) 7 (2) 5 (2) 4 (1) Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2 (1) 3 (1) 1 (0) 5 (2) Migraine 11 (3) 8 (2) 5 (2) 3 (1) Palpitation 1 (0) 1 (0) 2 (1) 4 (1) Vasodilatation 0 3 (1) 1 (0) 5 (2) Digestive System Constipation 5 (2) 7 (2) 6 (2) 3 (1) Diarrhea 5 (2) 2 (1) 6 (2) 8 (2) Dyspepsia 10 (3) 9 (3) 6 (2) 14 (4) Flatulence 16 (5) 18 (5) 13 (4) 8 (2) Increased appetite 6 (2) 2 (1) 0 2 (1) Nausea 13 (4) 13 (4) 16 (5) 16 (5) Metabolic and nutritional Peripheral edema 7 (2) 8 (2) 4 (1) 3 (1) Weight gain 9 (3) 8 (2) 6 (2) 14 (4) Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 2 (1) 3 (1) 3 (1) 5 (2) Leg cramps 13 (4) 7 (2) 10 (3) 4 (1) Nervous System Anxiety 5 (2) 4 (1) 1 (0) 4 (1) Depression 23 (7) 11 (3) 11 (3) 17 (5) Dizziness 3 (1) 8 (2) 6 (2) 5 (2) Emotional lability 10 (3) 10 (3) 9 (3) 8 (2) Insomnia 8 (2) 7 (2) 9 (3) 14 (4) Nervousness 6 (2) 3 (1) 4 (1) 6 (2) Skin and Appendages Acne 7 (2) 3 (1) 0 3 (1) Alopecia 1 (0) 6 (2) 4 (1) 2 (1) Pruritus 8 (2) 10 (3) 9 (3) 3 (1) Rash 0 6 (2) 4 (1) 2 (1) Skin discoloration 5 (2) 1 (0) 3 (1) 1 (0) Sweating 3 (1) 1 (0) 0 4 (1) Urogenital System Breast disorder 7 (2) 6 (2) 5 (2) 6 (2) Breast enlargement 18 (5) 9 (3) 5 (2) 3 (1) Breast neoplasm 8 (2) 7 (2) 5 (2) 7 (2) Breast pain 87 (26) 66 (20) 41 (13) 26 (8) Cervix disorder 7 (2) 2 (1) 2 (1) 0 Dysmenorrhea 14 (4) 18 (5) 9 (3) 2 (1) Hematuria 4 (1) 3 (1) 1 (0) 2 (1) Leukorrhea 7 (2) 14 (4) 9 (3) 6 (2) Metrorrhagia 7 (2) 14 (4) 4 (1) 1 (0) Urinary tract infection 0 1 (0) 1 (0) 4 (1) Uterine spasm 13 (4) 11 (3) 7 (2) 2 (1) Vaginal dryness 2 (1) 1 (0) 0 6 (2) Vaginal hemorrhage 18 (5) 14 (4) 7 (2) 0 Vaginal moniliasis 13 (4) 11 (3) 8 (2) 5 (2) Vaginitis 6 (2) 8 (2) 7 (2) 1 (0) In addition, the following events were considered as related to the study drug with an incidence less than 1 percent, including accidental injury, infection, myalgia, cough increased, rhinitis, sinusitis, and upper respiratory infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary System Abnormal uterine bleeding, dysmenorrhea or pelvic pain, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis, vaginal candidiasis, amenorrhea, changes in cervical secretion, ovarian cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, superficial thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, stroke, increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating, cholestatic jaundice, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, changes in appetite, ischemic colitis. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, loss of scalp hair, hirsutism, pruritus, urticaria, rash, acne. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance of contact lenses. Central Nervous System Headache, migraine, dizziness, mental depression, exacerbation of chorea, mood disturbances, anxiety, irritability, exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia, growth potentiation of benign meningioma. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight, arthralgia, glucose intolerance, edema, changes in libido, exacerbation of asthma, increased triglycerides, hypersensitivity. Additional postmarketing adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving other forms of hormone therapy."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Malignant Neoplasms [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, the most common adverse reactions >= 2 percent are headache, pelvic pain, vasodilation, breast pain, leucorrhea, metrorrhagia, vaginitis, vulvovaginal disorder (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of PREMARIN Vaginal Cream (PVC), a total of 423 postmenopausal women received at least 1 dose of study medication and were included in all safety analyses: 143 women in the PVC-21/7 treatment group (0.5 g PVC daily for 21 days, then 7 days off), 72 women in the matching placebo treatment group; 140 women in the PVC-2\\303\\227/wk treatment group (0.5 g PVC twice weekly), 68 women in the matching placebo treatment group. A 40-week, open-label extension followed, in which a total of 394 women received treatment with PVC, including those subjects randomized at baseline to placebo. In this study, the most common adverse reactions >= 1 percent in the double blind phase are shown below (Table 1) [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Table 1: Number (%) of Patients Reporting Treatment Emergent Adverse Reactions >= 1 Percent Only Treatment Body SystemBody system totals are not necessarily the sum of individual adverse events, since a patient may report two or more different adverse reactions in the same body system./Adverse Reaction PVC 21/7 N=143 Placebo 21/7 N=72 PVC 2\\303\\227/week N=140 Placebo 2\\303\\227/week N=68 Number (%) of Patients with Adverse Reaction Body As A Whole Abdominal Pain 1 (0.7) 1 (1.4) 0 1 (1.5) Headache 5 (3.5) 1 (1.4) 3 (2.1) 1 (1.5) Moniliasis 2 (1.4) 1 (1.4) 1 (0.7) 0 Pain 2 (1.4) 0 1 (0.7) 0 Pelvic Pain 4 (2.8) 2 (2.8) 4 (2.9) 0 Cardiovascular System Migraine 0 0 0 1 (1.5) Vasodilation 3 (2.1) 2 (2.8) 2 (1.4) 0 Musculoskeletal System Muscle Cramp 2 (1.4) 0 0 0 Nervous System Dizziness 1 (0.7) 0 0 1 (1.5) Skin and Appendages Acne 0 0 2 (1.4) 0 Erythema 0 1 (1.4) 0 0 Pruritus 2 (1.4) 1 (1.4) 1 (0.7) 0 Urogenital System Breast Enlargement 1 (0.7) 1 (1.4) 0 0 Breast Pain 7 (4.9) 0 3 (2.1) 0 Dysuria 2 (1.4) 0 0 0 Leukorrhea 3 (2.1) 1 (1.4) 4 (2.9) 5 (7.4) Metrorrhagia 0 0 0 2 (2.9) Urinary Frequency 0 1 (1.4) 0 0 Urinary Tract Infection 0 1 (1.4) 0 0 Urinary Urgency 1 (0.7) 1 (1.4) 0 0 Vaginal Hemorrhage 2 (1.4) 0 1 (0.7) 1 (1.5) Vaginal Moniliasis 2 (1.4) 0 0 0 Vaginitis 2 (1.4) 1 (1.4) 3 (2.1) 3 (4.4) Vulvovaginal Disorder 4 (2.8) 0 3 (2.1) 2 (2.9) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PREMARIN Vaginal Cream. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary System Abnormal uterine bleeding or spotting, dysmenorrhea or pelvic pain, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis (including vaginal candidiasis), change in cervical secretion, cystitis-like syndrome, application site reactions of vulvovaginal discomfort, (including burning, irritation, and genital pruritus), endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer, precocious puberty, leukorrhea. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, discharge, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer, gynecomastia in males. Cardiovascular Deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, stroke, increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, bloating, increased incidence of gallbladder disease. Skin Chloasma that may persist when drug is discontinued, loss of scalp hair, hirsutism, rash. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System Headache, migraine, dizziness, mental depression, nervousness, mood disturbances, irritability, dementia. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight, glucose intolerance, edema, arthralgias, leg cramps, changes in libido, urticaria, exacerbation of asthma, increased triglycerides, hypersensitivity. Additional postmarketing adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving other forms of hormone therapy."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Cytochrome P450 (CYP) In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Concomitant administration of itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, with DUAVEE, resulted in increases in bazedoxifene exposure (40%) and, to a lesser extent, conjugated estrogens exposure (9% for baseline-adjusted total estrone, 5% for total equilin), compared to DUAVEE alone [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of some estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Bazedoxifene does not induce or inhibit the activities of major CYP isoenzymes. In vitro data suggest that bazedoxifene is unlikely to interact with co-administered drugs via CYP-mediated metabolism. 7.2 Uridine Diphosphate Glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) Bazedoxifene undergoes metabolism by UGT enzymes in the intestinal tract and liver. The metabolism of bazedoxifene may be increased by concomitant use of substances known to induce UGTs, such as rifampin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and phenytoin. A reduction in bazedoxifene exposure may be associated with an increase risk of endometrial hyperplasia. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. 7.3 Atorvastatin Concomitant administration of bazedoxifene (40 mg daily) and atorvastatin (20 mg, single-dose) to healthy postmenopausal women did not affect the pharmacokinetics of bazedoxifene, atorvastatin or its active metabolites."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic disposition of both drugs is not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with CE plus MPA. Inducers and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7.1) Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of medroxyprogesterone acetate (7.1) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects. Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of MPA."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic disposition of both drugs is not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with CE plus MPA. Inducers and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7) Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of medroxyprogesterone acetate (7) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects. Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of MPA."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic disposition of both drugs is not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with conjugated estrogens. Inducers and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism ( ) 7.1 7.1 Metabolic Interactions and studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's Wort ( ) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects. In vitro in vivo Hypericum perforatum"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic disposition of both drugs is not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with conjugated estrogens. Inducers and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7.1) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with Cenestin -Inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7.1) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers and inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4 such as St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with ENJUVIA. -Inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7.1) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers and inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted for PREMARIN Vaginal Cream. Inducers and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7.1) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies were conducted with DUAVEE. Results from in vitro and in vivo studies and clinical studies conducted with the conjugated estrogens or bazedoxifene components of DUAVEE are noted below: No drug interaction studies were conducted with DUAVEE. Estrogens are metabolized partially by CYP3A4. Concomitant use of DUAVEE with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the exposure of conjugated estrogens and thereby may increase the risk of endometrial hyperplasia (7.1). 7.1 Cytochrome P450 (CYP) In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase the exposure of conjugated estrogens resulting in an increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia. Therefore, for chronically administered CYP3A4 inhibitors (>30 days) concurrently administered with DUAVEE, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated by signs and symptoms of endometrial hyperplasia, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. Bazedoxifene undergoes little or no cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated metabolism. Bazedoxifene does not induce or inhibit the activities of major CYP isoenzymes. In vitro data suggest that bazedoxifene is unlikely to interact with co-administered drugs via CYP-mediated metabolism. 7.2 Uridine Diphosphate Glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) Bazedoxifene undergoes metabolism by UGT enzymes in the intestinal tract and liver. The metabolism of bazedoxifene may be increased by concomitant use of substances known to induce UGTs, such as rifampin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and phenytoin. A reduction in bazedoxifene exposure may be associated with an increase risk of endometrial hyperplasia. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. 7.3 Atorvastatin Concomitant administration of bazedoxifene (40 mg daily) and atorvastatin (20 mg, single-dose) to healthy postmenopausal women did not affect the pharmacokinetics of bazedoxifene, atorvastatin or its active metabolites."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Associated with Estrogens (See WARNINGS regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogenic therapy, including oral contraceptives: 1. Genitourinary system: Breakthrough bleeding; spotting; change in menstrual flow; dysmenorrhea; premenstrual-like syndrome; amenorrhea during and after treatment; increase in size of urerine fibromyomata; vaginal candidiasis; change in cervical erosion and in degree of cervical secretion; cystitis-like syndrome. 2. Breasts: Tenderness: enlargement; secretion. 3. Gastrointestinal: Nausea; vomiting; abdominal cramps; bloating; cholestatic jaundice. 4. Skin: Chloasma or melasma which may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism. 5. Eyes: Steepening of corneal curvature; intolerance to contact lenses. 6. Central Nervous System: Headache, migraine, dizziness; mental depression; chorea. 7. Miscellaneous: Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; changes in libido. Associated with Methyltestosterone 1. Endocrine and Urogenital. Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. 2. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. 3. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. 4. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis (See WARNINGS). 5. Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. 6. Nervous System. Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. 7. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. 8. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparatons, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Associated with Estrogens (See Warnings regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogenic therapy, including oral contraceptives: Genitourinary system. Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, change in menstrual flow. Dysmenorrhea. Premenstrual-like syndrome. Amenorrhea during and after treatment. Increase in size of uterine fibromyomata. Vaginal candidiasis. Change in cervical erosion and in degree of cervical secretion. Cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts. Tenderness, enlargement, secretion. Gastrointestinal. Nausea, vomiting. Abdominal cramps, bloating. Cholestatic jaundice. Skin. Chloasma or melasma which may persist when drug is discontinued. Erythema multiforme. Erythema nodosum. Hemorrhagic eruption. Loss of scalp hair. Hirsutism. Eyes. Steepening of corneal curvature. Intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System. Headache, migraine, dizziness. Mental depression. Chorea. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight. Reduced carbohydrate tolerance. Aggravation of porphyria. Edema. Changes in libido. Associated with Methyltestosterone Endocrine and Urogenital: Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis (see WARNINGS ). Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors, II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Nervous System: Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Associated with Estrogens (See Warnings regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogenic therapy, including oral contraceptives: Genitourinary system. Breakthrough bleeding, spotting, change in menstrual flow. Dysmenorrhea. Premenstrual-like syndrome. Amenorrhea during and after treatment. Increase in size of uterine fibromyomata. Vaginal candidiasis. Change in cervical erosion and in degree of cervical secretion. Cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts. Tenderness, enlargement, secretion. Gastrointestinal. Nausea, vomiting. Abdominal cramps, bloating. Cholestatic jaundice. Skin. Chloasma or melasma which may persist when drug is discontinued. Erythema multiforme. Erythema nodosum. Hemorrhagic eruption. Loss of scalp hair. Hirsutism. Eyes. Steepening of corneal curvature. Intolerance to contact lenses. CNS. Headache, migraine, dizziness. Mental depression. Chorea. Miscellaneous. Increase or decrease in weight. Reduced carbohydrate tolerance. Aggravation of porphyria. Edema. Changes in libido. Associated with Methyltestosterone A. Endocrine and Urogenital. Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis (see WARNINGS). Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors, II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Nervous System: Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. Associated with Estrogens (See WARNINGS regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. Genitourinary System: Changes in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer; cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts: Tenderness; enlargement; pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. Cardiovascular: Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal: Nausea; vomiting; abdominal cramps; bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Skin: Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. Eyes: Retinal vascular thrombosis, steepening of corneal curvature, intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System: Headache, migraine, dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. Miscellaneous: Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthralgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides. Associated with Methyltestosterone Endocrine and Urogenital Female: The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman, androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis. (See WARNINGS .) Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Central Nervous System: Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic: Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. Associated with Estrogens (See WARNINGS regarding induction of neoplasia, adverse effects on the fetus, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, and adverse effects similar to those of oral contraceptives, including thromboembolism). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. Genitourinary System : Changes in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer; cystitis-like syndrome. Breasts: Tenderness; enlargement; pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. Cardiovascular : Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal : Nausea; vomiting; abdominal cramps; bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Skin : Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. Eyes : Retinal vascular thrombosis, steepening of corneal curvature, intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System : Headache, migraine, dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. Miscellaneous : Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthralgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides. Associated with Methyltestosterone Endocrine and Urogenital Female : The most common side effects of androgen therapy are amenorrhea and other menstrual irregularities, inhibition of gonadotropin secretion, and virilization, including deepening of the voice and clitoral enlargement. The latter usually is not reversible after androgens are discontinued. When administered to a pregnant woman, androgens cause virilization of external genitalia of the female fetus. Skin and Appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, and acne. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances : Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal : Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function test, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms, and peliosis hepatis. (See WARNINGS .) Hematologic : Suppression of clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Central Nervous System : Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Metabolic : Increased serum cholesterol. Miscellaneous : Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection or subcutaneous implantation of testosterone containing pellets, stomatitis with buccal preparations, and rarely anaphylactoid reactions. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Metyltestosterone is classified as a schedule III Controlled Substance under the Anabolic Steroids Act of 1990."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS, WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. In a 12-week clinical trial, 209 postmenopausal women with vasomotor symptoms were treated with ENJUVIA. Adverse events that occurred in the study at a rate greater than or equal to 5% and greater than placebo, regardless of relationship to study drug, are summarized in Table 8. Table 8. ENJUVIA Tablets - Number (%) of Patients Reporting Aderse Events* with >= 5% Occurrence Rate by Body System *Treatment-emergent adverse events, regardless of relationship to study drug Body System/Adverse Event* 0.3 mg n=68 0.625 mg n=72 1.25 mg n=69 Placebo n=72 Number of Patients in Safety Sample (%) 68 (100) 72 (100) 69 (100) 72 (100) Number of Patients with Adverse Events (%) 49 (72) 55 (76) 56 (81) 51 (71) Number of Patients without Adverse Events (%) 19 (28) 17 (24) 13 (19) 21 (29) Body as a Whole Abdominal Pain 3 (4) 11 (15) 3 (4) 7 (10) Accidental Injury 6 (8) 2 (3) 3 (4) 5 (7) Flu Syndrome 4 (6) 3 (4) 5 (7) 3 (4) Headache 10 (15) 18 (25) 11 (16) 15 (21) Pain 10 (15) 14 (19) 7 (10) 6 (8) Digestive System Flatulence 3 (4) 5 (7) 3 (4) 2 (3) Nausea 5 (7) 7 (10) 8 (12) 6 (8) Nervous System Dizziness 5 (7) 3 (4) 1 (1) 3 (4) Paresthesia 0 4 (6) 1 (1) 0 Respiratory System Bronchitis 0 3 (4) 5 (7) 3 (4) Rhinitis 3 (4) 4 (6) 5 (7) 4 (6) Sinusitis 2 (3) 3 (4) 5 (7) 2 (3) Urogenital System Breast Pain 0 9 (12) 10 (14) 3 (4) Dysmenorrhea 1 (2) 6 (8) 1 (1) 2 (3) Vaginitis 1 (2) 5 (7) 2 (3) 3 (4) In a second 12-week clinical trial, 310 women with symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy were treated (154 women with ENJUVIA 0.3 mg tablets and 156 women with placebo). The only adverse event that occurred at a rate of >5% was headache; seven patients (4.55%) with ENJUVIA and twelve patients (7.69%) with placebo. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy: Genitourinary system Changes in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthralgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS, WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. In a 12-week clinical trial that included 72 women treated with 0.625 mg and 2 x 0.625 mg Cenestin and 48 women treated with placebo, adverse events that occurred at a rate of >= 5% are summarized in Table 5. Table 5 Number (%) of Patients with Adverse Events With >= 5% Occurrence Rate By Body System and Treatment Group Body System Adverse Event Cenestin 0.625 mg and 2 x 0.625 mg n (%) Placebo n (%) Total n (%) Number of Patients Who Received Medication 72 (100) 48 (100) 120 (100) Number of Patients With Adverse Events 68 (94) 43 (90) 111 (93) Number of Patients Without Any Adverse Events 4 (6) 5 (10) 9 (8) Body As A Whole Abdominal Pain 20 (28) 11 (23) 31 (26) Asthenia 24 (33) 20 (42) 44 (37) Back Pain 10 (14) 6 (13) 16 (13) Fever 1 (1) 3 (6) 4 (3) Headache 49 (68) 32 (67) 81 (68) Infection 10 (14) 5 (10) 15 (13) Pain 8 (11) 9 (19) 17 (14) Cardiovascular System Palpitation 15 (21) 13 (27) 28 (23) Digestive System Constipation 4 (6) 2 (4) 6 (5) Diarrhea 4 (6) 0 (0) 4 (3) Dyspepsia 7 (10) 3 (6) 10 (8) Flatulence 21 (29) 14 (29) 35 (29) Nausea 13 (18) 9 (19) 22 (18) Vomiting 5 (7) 1 (2) 6 (5) Metabolic and Nutritional Peripheral Edema 7 (10) 6 (13) 13 (11) Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 18 (25) 13 (27) 31 (26) Myalgia 20 (28) 15 (31) 35 (29) Nervous System Depression 20 (28) 18 (38) 38 (32) Dizziness 8 (11) 5 (10) 13 (11) Hypertonia 4 (6) 0 (0) 4 (3) Insomnia 30 (42) 23 (48) 53 (44) Leg Cramps 7 (10) 3 (6) 10 (8) Nervousness 20 (28) 20 (42) 40 (33) Paresthesia 24 (33) 15 (31) 39 (33) Vertigo 12 (17) 12 (25) 24 (20) Respiratory System Cough Increased 4 (6) 1 (2) 5 (4) Pharyngitis 6 (8) 4 (8) 10 (8) Rhinitis 6 (8) 7 (15) 13 (11) Skin and Appendages Rash 3 (4) 3 (6) 6 (5) Urogenital System Breast Pain 21 (29) 7 (15) 28 (23) Dysmenorrhea 4 (6) 3 (6) 7 (6) Metorrhagia 10 (14) 3 (6) 13 (11) In a second 12-week clinical trial that included 52 women treated with 0.45 mg Cenestin and 51 women treated with placebo, adverse events that occurred at a rate of >5% are summarized in Table 6. Table 6 Number (%) of Patients with a >= 5% Occurrence Rate By Body System and Treatment Group Body System and Term Cenestin 0.45 mg Control p-value Any Adverse Event (%) 40 (75.5%) 39 (76.5%) 1.0000 Body As A Whole 20 (37.7%) 24 (47.1%) 0.4275 Asthenia 6 (11.3%) 7 (13.7%) 0.7731 Headache 6 (11.3%) 8 (15.7%) 0.5748 Infection 1 (1.9%) 6 (11.8%) 0.0576 Pain 6 (11.3%) 1 (2.0%) 0.1128 Pain abdominal 5 (9.4%) 3 (5.9%) 0.7159 Cardiovascular 5 (9.4%) 10 (19.6%) 0.1695 Palpitations 3 (5.7%) 3 (5.9%) 1.0000 Vasodilations 2 (3.8%) 4 (7.8%) 0.4324 Digestive 8 (15.1%) 7 (13.7%) 1.0000 Nausea 5 (9.4%) 2 (3.9%) 0.4374 Metabolic and Nutritional 5 (9.4%) 3 (5.9%) 0.1759 Weight increase 3 (5.7%) 2 (3.9%) 1.0000 Musculoskeletal 5 (9.4%) 6 (11.8%) 0.7582 Arthralgia 5 (9.4%) 5 (9.8%) 1.0000 Myalgia 2 (3.8%) 6 (11.8%) 0.1566 Neurological 15 (28.3%) 19 (37.3%) 0.4044 Anxiety 3 (5.7%) 1 (2.0%) 0.6179 Depression 2 (3.8%) 7 (13.7%) 0.0895 Insomnia 3 (5.7%) 5 (9.8%) 0.4839 Nervousness 2 (3.8%) 7 (13.7%) 0.0895 Paresthesia 4 (7.5%) 3 (5.9%) 1.0000 Vertigo 3 (5.7%) 3 (5.9%) 1.0000 Respiratory 10 (18.9%) 6 (11.8%) 0.4173 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 7 (13.2%) 1 (2.0%) 0.0603 Rhinitis 3 (5.7%) 2 (3.9%) 1.0000 Pharyngitis 1 (1.9%) 3 (5.9%) 0.3581 Urogenital 19 (35.8%) 7 (13.7%) 0.0124 Endometrial thickening 10 (18.9%) 4 (7.8%) 0.1503 Vaginitis 4 (7.5%) 1 (2.0%) 0.3632 P-value by Fisher's Exact (2-tail) Test If a subject experiences the same event more than once, the first occurrence is tabulated. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy: Genitourinary system. Changes in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. Breasts. Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. Cardiovascular. Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal. Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Skin. Chloasma or melasma, which may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. Eyes. Retinal vascular thrombosis; intolerance to contact lenses. Central nervous system. Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. Miscellaneous. Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema; anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . Premarin Intravenous for injection is indicated for short-term use. However, the warnings, precautions and adverse reactions associated with oral Premarin treatment should be taken into account. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of oral or intravenous Premarin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting. Dysmenorrhea or pelvic pain. Increase in size of uterine leiomyomata. Vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis. Change in amount of cervical secretion. Change in cervical ectropion. Ovarian cancer. Endometrial hyperplasia. Endometrial cancer. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, discharge, galactorrhea. Fibrocystic breast changes. Breast cancer. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis. Pulmonary embolism. Thrombophlebitis. Myocardial infarction. Stroke. Increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting. Abdominal cramps, bloating. Cholestatic jaundice. Increased incidence of gallbladder disease. Pancreatitis. Enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Ischemic colitis. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued. Erythema multiforme. Erythema nodosum. Hemorrhagic eruption. Loss of scalp hair. Hirsutism. Pruritis. Rash. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis. Intolerance to contact lenses. Central Nervous System Headache. Migraine. Dizziness. Mental depression. Exacerbation of chorea. Nervousness. Exacerbation of epilepsy. Dementia. Possible growth potentiation of benign meningioma. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight. Glucose intolerance. Aggravation of porphyria. Edema. Arthralgia. Leg cramps. Changes in libido. Urticaria. Hypocalcemia (preexisting condition). Injection site pain. Injection site edema. Phlebitis (injection site). Exacerbation of asthma. Increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See Boxed Warnings , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogens and/or progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary system Changes in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer; premenstrual like syndrome, amenorrhea during and after treatment; cystitis like syndrome. 2. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gall bladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. Skin Chloasma or melasma, that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis; steepening of corneal curvature; intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central nervous system Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogens and/or progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary systemChanges in vaginal bleeding pattern and abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrhea, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer; premenstrual like syndrome, amenorrhea during and after treatment; cystitis like syndrome. 2. BreastsTenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. CardiovascularDeep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. GastrointestinalNausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gall bladder disease; pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. SkinChloasma or melasma, that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. EyesRetinal vascular thrombosis; steepening of corneal curvature; intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central nervous systemHeadache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. MiscellaneousIncrease or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"D. Drug Interactions Anticoagulants C-17 substituted derivatives of testosterone, such as methandrostenolone, have been reported to decrease the anticoagulant requirements of patients receiving oral anticoagulants. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when androgens are started or stopped. Oxyphenbutazone. Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. Insulin. In diabetic patients the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirements."$$
"Drug Interactions (Androgens) Anticoagulants: C-17 substituted derivatives of testosterone, such as methandrostenolone, have been reported to decrease the anticoagulant requirements of patients receiving oral anticoagulants. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when androgens are started or stopped. Oxyphenbutazone: Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. Insulin: In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirements."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants: C-17 substituted derivatives of testosterone, such as methandrostenolone, have been reported to decrease the anticoagulant requirements of patients receiving oral anticoagulants. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when androgens are started or stopped. Oxyphenbutazone: Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. Insulin: In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirements."$$
"Drug Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers and inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4 such as St. John's Wort preparations (Hypericum perforatum), phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects.",$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4 such as St. John's Wort preparations (Hypericum perforatum), phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects."$$
"F. Drug Interactions Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic dispositions of both drugs are not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with conjugated estrogens. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects."$$
"F. Drug Interactions Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic dispositions of both drugs are not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with conjugated estrogens. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's Wort preparations (Hypericum perforatum), phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects."$$
