"10. DRUG INTERACTIONS Changes in contraceptive effectiveness associated with co-administration of other drugs: a. Anti-infective agents and anticonvulsants Contraceptive effectiveness may be reduced when hormonal contraceptives are co-administered with some antifungals, anticonvulsants, and other drugs that increase metabolism of contraceptive steroids. This could result in unintended pregnancy or breakthrough bleeding. Examples include barbiturates, griseofulvin, rifampin, phenylbutazone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, felbamate, oxcarbazepine, topiramate, and modafinil. Women may need to use an additional contraceptive method when taking such medications. b. Anti-HIV protease inhibitors Several of the anti-HIV protease inhibitors have been studied with co-administration of oral combination hormonal contraceptives; significant changes (increases and decreases) in the plasma levels of the estrogen and progestin have been noted in some cases. The efficacy and safety of hormonal contraceptive products may be affected with co-administration of anti-HIV protease inhibitors. Healthcare providers should refer to the label of the individual anti-HIV protease inhibitors for further drug-drug interaction information. c. Herbal products Herbal products containing St. John's Wort (hypericum perforatum) may induce hepatic enzymes (cytochrome P450) and p-glycoprotein transporter and may reduce the effectiveness of contraceptive steroids. This may also result in breakthrough bleeding. Increase in plasma hormone levels associated with co-administered drugs Co-administration of atorvastatin and certain oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol increase AUC values for ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol levels, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP 3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone levels. Co-administration of vaginal miconazole nitrate and NuvaRing(R) increases the serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol by up to 40%. Changes in plasma levels of co-administered drugs Combination hormonal contraceptives containing some synthetic estrogens (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds. Increased plasma concentrations of cyclosporine, prednisolone, and theophylline have been reported with concomitant administration of oral contraceptives. In addition, oral contraceptives may induce the conjugation of other compounds. Decreased plasma concentrations of acetaminophen and increased clearance of temazepam, salicylic acid, morphine and clofibric acid have been noted when these drugs were administered with oral contraceptives."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The following information is based on experience with either IMPLANON, other progestin-only contraceptives, or experience with combination (estrogen plus progestin) oral contraceptives. Insertion and removal complications: Pain, paresthesias, bleeding, hematoma, scarring or infection may occur. (5.1) Menstrual bleeding pattern: Counsel women regarding changes in bleeding frequency, intensity, or duration. (5.2) Ectopic pregnancies: Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy in women using IMPLANON who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain. (5.3) Thrombotic and other vascular events: The IMPLANON implant should be removed in the event of a thrombosis. (5.4) Liver disease: Remove the IMPLANON implant if jaundice occurs. (5.7) Elevated blood pressure: The IMPLANON implant should be removed if blood pressure rises significantly and becomes uncontrolled. (5.9) Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects: Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women using IMPLANON. (5.11) 5.1 Complications of Insertion and Removal IMPLANON should be inserted subdermally so that it will be palpable after insertion, and this should be confirmed by palpation immediately after insertion. Failure to insert IMPLANON properly may go unnoticed unless it is palpated immediately after insertion. Undetected failure to insert the implant may lead to an unintended pregnancy. Complications related to insertion and removal procedures, such as pain, paresthesias, bleeding, hematoma, scarring or infection, may occur. Occasionally in post-marketing use, implant insertions have failed because the implant fell out of the needle or remained in the needle during insertion. If IMPLANON is inserted deeply (intramuscular or in the fascia), neural or vascular injury may occur. To reduce the risk of neural or vascular injury, IMPLANON should be inserted at the inner side of the non-dominant upper arm about 8-10 cm (3-4 inches) above the medial epicondyle of the humerus. IMPLANON should be inserted subdermally just under the skin, avoiding the sulcus (groove) between the biceps and triceps muscles and the large blood vessels and nerves that lie there in the neurovascular bundle deeper in the subcutaneous tissues. Deep insertions of IMPLANON have been associated with paraesthesia (due to neural injury), migration of the implant (due to intramuscular or fascial insertion), and intravascular insertion. If infection develops at the insertion site, start suitable treatment. If the infection persists, the implant should be removed. Incomplete insertions or infections may lead to expulsion. Implant removal may be difficult or impossible if the implant is not inserted correctly, is inserted too deeply, not palpable, encased in fibrous tissue, or has migrated. There have been reports of migration of the implant within the arm from the insertion site, which may be related to a deep insertion. There also have been postmarketing reports of implants located within the vessels of the arm and the pulmonary artery, which may be related to deep insertions or intravascular insertion. In cases where the implant has migrated to the pulmonary artery, endovascular procedures may be needed for removal. If at any time the implant cannot be palpated, it should be localized and removal is recommended. Exploratory surgery without knowledge of the exact location of the implant is strongly discouraged. Removal of deeply inserted implants should be conducted with caution in order to prevent injury to deeper neural or vascular structures in the arm and be performed by healthcare providers familiar with the anatomy of the arm. If the implant is located in the chest, healthcare providers familiar with the anatomy of the chest should be consulted. Failure to remove the implant may result in continued effects of etonogestrel, such as compromised fertility, ectopic pregnancy, or persistence or occurrence of a drug-related adverse event. 5.2 Changes in Menstrual Bleeding Patterns After starting IMPLANON, women are likely to have a change from their normal menstrual bleeding pattern. These may include changes in bleeding frequency (absent, less, more frequent or continuous), intensity (reduced or increased) or duration. In clinical trials, bleeding patterns ranged from amenorrhea (1 in 5 women) to frequent and/or prolonged bleeding (1 in 5 women). The bleeding pattern experienced during the first three months of IMPLANON use is broadly predictive of the future bleeding pattern for many women. Women should be counseled regarding the bleeding pattern changes they may experience so that they know what to expect. Abnormal bleeding should be evaluated as needed to exclude pathologic conditions or pregnancy. In clinical studies of IMPLANON, reports of changes in bleeding pattern were the most common reason for stopping treatment (11.1%). Irregular bleeding (10.8%) was the single most common reason women stopped treatment, while amenorrhea (0.3%) was cited less frequently. In these studies, women had an average of 17.7 days of bleeding or spotting every 90 days (based on 3,315 intervals of 90 days recorded by 780 patients). The percentages of patients having 0, 1-7, 8-21, or >21 days of spotting or bleeding over a 90-day interval while using the IMPLANON implant are shown in Table 1. Table 1: Percentages of Patients with 0, 1 - 7, 8 - 21, or >21 Days of Spotting or Bleeding Over a 90-Day Interval While Using IMPLANON Total Days of Spotting or Bleeding Percentage of Patients Treatment Days 91-180 (N = 745) Treatment Days 271-360 (N = 657) Treatment Days 631-720 (N = 547) 0 Days 19% 24% 17% 1-7 Days 15% 13% 12% 8-21 Days 30% 30% 37% >21 Days 35% 33% 35% Bleeding patterns observed with use of IMPLANON for up to 2 years, and the proportion of 90-day intervals with these bleeding patterns, are summarized in Table 2. Table 2: Bleeding Patterns Using IMPLANON during the First 2 Years of UseBased on 3,315 recording periods of 90 day's duration in 780 women, excluding the first 90 days after implant insertion BLEEDING PATTERNS DEFINITIONS % = Percentage of 90-day intervals with this pattern Infrequent Less than three bleeding and/or spotting episodes in 90 days (excluding amenorrhea) 33.6 Amenorrhea No bleeding and/or spotting in 90 days 22.2 Prolonged Any bleeding and/or spotting episode lasting more than 14 days in 90 days 17.7 Frequent More than 5 bleeding and/or spotting episodes in 90 days 6.7 In case of undiagnosed, persistent, or recurrent abnormal vaginal bleeding, appropriate measures should be conducted to rule out malignancy. 5.3 Ectopic Pregnancies As with all progestin-only contraceptive products, be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using IMPLANON who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain. Although ectopic pregnancies are uncommon among women using IMPLANON, a pregnancy that occurs in a woman using IMPLANON may be more likely to be ectopic than a pregnancy occurring in a woman using no contraception. 5.4 Thrombotic and Other Vascular Events The use of combination hormonal contraceptives (progestin plus estrogen) increases the risk of vascular events, including arterial events (strokes and myocardial infarctions) or deep venous thrombotic events (venous thromboembolism, deep venous thrombosis, retinal vein thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism). IMPLANON is a progestin-only contraceptive. It is unknown whether this increased risk is applicable to etonogestrel alone. It is recommended, however, that women with risk factors known to increase the risk of venous and arterial thromboembolism be carefully assessed. There have been postmarketing reports of serious arterial thrombotic and venous thromboembolic events, including cases of pulmonary emboli (some fatal), deep vein thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and strokes, in women using IMPLANON. IMPLANON should be removed in the event of a thrombosis. Due to the risk of thromboembolism associated with pregnancy and immediately following delivery, IMPLANON should not be used prior to 21 days postpartum. Women with a history of thromboembolic disorders should be made aware of the possibility of a recurrence. Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately if there is unexplained loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, papilledema, or retinal vascular lesions. Consider removal of the IMPLANON implant in case of long-term immobilization due to surgery or illness. 5.5 Ovarian Cysts If follicular development occurs, atresia of the follicle is sometimes delayed, and the follicle may continue to grow beyond the size it would attain in a normal cycle. Generally, these enlarged follicles disappear spontaneously. On rare occasion, surgery may be required. 5.6 Carcinoma of the Breast and Reproductive Organs Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use hormonal contraception because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications (4)]. Some studies suggest that the use of combination hormonal contraceptives might increase the incidence of breast cancer; however, other studies have not confirmed such findings. Some studies suggest that the use of combination hormonal contraceptives is associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia. However, there is controversy about the extent to which such findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors. Women with a family history of breast cancer or who develop breast nodules should be carefully monitored. 5.7 Liver Disease Disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of hormonal contraceptive use until markers of liver function return to normal. Remove IMPLANON if jaundice develops. Hepatic adenomas are associated with combination hormonal contraceptives use. An estimate of the attributable risk is 3.3 cases per 100,000 for combination hormonal contraceptives users. It is not known whether a similar risk exists with progestin-only methods like IMPLANON. The progestin in IMPLANON may be poorly metabolized in women with liver impairment. Use of IMPLANON in women with active liver disease or liver cancer is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.8 Weight Gain In clinical studies, mean weight gain in US IMPLANON users was 2.8 pounds after 1 year and 3.7 pounds after 2 years. How much of the weight gain was related to the implant is unknown. In studies, 2.3% of the users reported weight gain as the reason for having the implant removed. 5.9 Elevated Blood Pressure Women with a history of hypertension-related diseases or renal disease should be discouraged from using hormonal contraception. For women with well-controlled hypertension, use of IMPLANON can be considered. Women with hypertension using IMPLANON should be closely monitored. If sustained hypertension develops during the use of IMPLANON, or if a significant increase in blood pressure does not respond adequately to antihypertensive therapy, IMPLANON should be removed. 5.10 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among combination hormonal contraceptive users. It is not known whether a similar risk exists with progestin-only methods like IMPLANON. 5.11 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Use of IMPLANON may induce mild insulin resistance and small changes in glucose concentrations of unknown clinical significance. Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women using IMPLANON. Women who are being treated for hyperlipidemia should be followed closely if they elect to use IMPLANON. Some progestins may elevate LDL levels and may render the control of hyperlipidemia more difficult. 5.12 Depressed Mood Women with a history of depressed mood should be carefully observed. Consideration should be given to removing IMPLANON in patients who become significantly depressed. 5.13 Return to Ovulation In clinical trials with IMPLANON, the etonogestrel levels in blood decreased below sensitivity of the assay by one week after removal of the implant. In addition, pregnancies were observed to occur as early as 7 to 14 days after removal. Therefore, a woman should re-start contraception immediately after removal of the implant if continued contraceptive protection is desired. 5.14 Fluid Retention Hormonal contraceptives may cause some degree of fluid retention. They should be prescribed with caution, and only with careful monitoring, in patients with conditions which might be aggravated by fluid retention. It is unknown if IMPLANON causes fluid retention. 5.15 Contact Lenses Contact lens wearers who develop visual changes or changes in lens tolerance should be assessed by an ophthalmologist. 5.16 In Situ Broken or Bent Implant There have been reports of broken or bent implants while in the patient's arm. Based on in vitro data, when the implant is broken or bent, the release rate of etonogestrel may be slightly increased. When an implant is removed, it is important to remove it in its entirety [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is using IMPLANON should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated health care. 5.18 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Sex hormone-binding globulin concentrations may be decreased for the first 6 months after IMPLANON insertion followed by a gradual recovery. Thyroxine concentrations may initially be slightly decreased followed by gradual recovery to baseline."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The following information is based on experience with the etonogestrel implants (IMPLANON and/or NEXPLANON), other progestin-only contraceptives, or experience with combination (estrogen plus progestin) oral contraceptives. Insertion and removal complications: Pain, paresthesias, bleeding, hematoma, scarring or infection may occur. (5.1) Menstrual bleeding pattern: Counsel women regarding changes in bleeding frequency, intensity, or duration. (5.2) Ectopic pregnancies: Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy in women using NEXPLANON who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain. (5.3) Thrombotic and other vascular events: The NEXPLANON implant should be removed in the event of a thrombosis. (5.4) Liver disease: Remove the NEXPLANON implant if jaundice occurs. (5.7) Elevated blood pressure: The NEXPLANON implant should be removed if blood pressure rises significantly and becomes uncontrolled. (5.9) Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects: Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women using NEXPLANON. (5.11) 5.1 Complications of Insertion and Removal NEXPLANON should be inserted subdermally so that it will be palpable after insertion, and this should be confirmed by palpation immediately after insertion. Failure to insert NEXPLANON properly may go unnoticed unless it is palpated immediately after insertion. Undetected failure to insert the implant may lead to an unintended pregnancy. Complications related to insertion and removal procedures, such as pain, paresthesias, bleeding, hematoma, scarring or infection, may occur. If NEXPLANON is inserted deeply (intramuscular or in the fascia), neural or vascular injury may occur. To reduce the risk of neural or vascular injury, NEXPLANON should be inserted at the inner side of the non-dominant upper arm about 8-10 cm (3-4 inches) above the medial epicondyle of the humerus. NEXPLANON should be inserted subdermally just under the skin, avoiding the sulcus (groove) between the biceps and triceps muscles and the large blood vessels and nerves that lie there in the neurovascular bundle deeper in the subcutaneous tissues. Deep insertions of NEXPLANON have been associated with paraesthesia (due to neural injury), migration of the implant (due to intramuscular or fascial insertion), and intravascular insertion. If infection develops at the insertion site, start suitable treatment. If the infection persists, the implant should be removed. Incomplete insertions or infections may lead to expulsion. Implant removal may be difficult or impossible if the implant is not inserted correctly, is inserted too deeply, not palpable, encased in fibrous tissue, or has migrated. There have been reports of migration of the implant within the arm from the insertion site, which may be related to deep insertion. There also have been postmarketing reports of implants located within the vessels of the arm and the pulmonary artery, which may be related to deep insertions or intravascular insertion. In cases where the implant has migrated to the pulmonary artery, endovascular or surgical procedures may be needed for removal. If at any time the implant cannot be palpated, it should be localized and removal is recommended. Exploratory surgery without knowledge of the exact location of the implant is strongly discouraged. Removal of deeply inserted implants should be conducted with caution in order to prevent injury to deeper neural or vascular structures in the arm and be performed by healthcare providers familiar with the anatomy of the arm. If the implant is located in the chest, healthcare providers familiar with the anatomy of the chest should be consulted. Failure to remove the implant may result in continued effects of etonogestrel, such as compromised fertility, ectopic pregnancy, or persistence or occurrence of a drug-related adverse event. 5.2 Changes in Menstrual Bleeding Patterns After starting NEXPLANON, women are likely to have a change from their normal menstrual bleeding pattern. These may include changes in bleeding frequency (absent, less, more frequent or continuous), intensity (reduced or increased) or duration. In clinical trials of the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant (IMPLANON), bleeding patterns ranged from amenorrhea (1 in 5 women) to frequent and/or prolonged bleeding (1 in 5 women). The bleeding pattern experienced during the first three months of NEXPLANON use is broadly predictive of the future bleeding pattern for many women. Women should be counseled regarding the bleeding pattern changes they may experience so that they know what to expect. Abnormal bleeding should be evaluated as needed to exclude pathologic conditions or pregnancy. In clinical studies of the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant, reports of changes in bleeding pattern were the most common reason for stopping treatment (11.1%). Irregular bleeding (10.8%) was the single most common reason women stopped treatment, while amenorrhea (0.3%) was cited less frequently. In these studies, women had an average of 17.7 days of bleeding or spotting every 90 days (based on 3,315 intervals of 90 days recorded by 780 patients). The percentages of patients having 0, 1-7, 8-21, or >21 days of spotting or bleeding over a 90-day interval while using the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant are shown in Table 1. Table 1: Percentages of Patients With 0, 1-7, 8-21, or >21 Days of Spotting or Bleeding Over a 90-Day Interval While Using the Non-Radiopaque Etonogestrel Implant (IMPLANON) Total Days of Spotting or Bleeding Percentage of Patients Treatment Days 91-180 (N = 745) Treatment Days 271-360 (N = 657) Treatment Days 631-720 (N = 547) 0 Days 19% 24% 17% 1-7 Days 15% 13% 12% 8-21 Days 30% 30% 37% >21 Days 35% 33% 35% Bleeding patterns observed with use of the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant for up to 2 years, and the proportion of 90-day intervals with these bleeding patterns, are summarized in Table 2. Table 2: Bleeding Patterns Using the Non-Radiopaque Etonogestrel Implant (IMPLANON) During the First 2 Years of UseBased on 3315 recording periods of 90 days duration in 780 women, excluding the first 90 days after implant insertion BLEEDING PATTERNS DEFINITIONS % = Percentage of 90-day intervals with this pattern Infrequent Less than three bleeding and/or spotting episodes in 90 days (excluding amenorrhea) 33.6 Amenorrhea No bleeding and/or spotting in 90 days 22.2 Prolonged Any bleeding and/or spotting episode lasting more than 14 days in 90 days 17.7 Frequent More than 5 bleeding and/or spotting episodes in 90 days 6.7 In case of undiagnosed, persistent, or recurrent abnormal vaginal bleeding, appropriate measures should be conducted to rule out malignancy. 5.3 Ectopic Pregnancies As with all progestin-only contraceptive products, be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using NEXPLANON who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain. Although ectopic pregnancies are uncommon among women using NEXPLANON, a pregnancy that occurs in a woman using NEXPLANON may be more likely to be ectopic than a pregnancy occurring in a woman using no contraception. 5.4 Thrombotic and Other Vascular Events The use of combination hormonal contraceptives (progestin plus estrogen) increases the risk of vascular events, including arterial events (strokes and myocardial infarctions) or deep venous thrombotic events (venous thromboembolism, deep venous thrombosis, retinal vein thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism). NEXPLANON is a progestin-only contraceptive. It is unknown whether this increased risk is applicable to etonogestrel alone. It is recommended, however, that women with risk factors known to increase the risk of venous and arterial thromboembolism be carefully assessed. There have been postmarketing reports of serious arterial thrombotic and venous thromboembolic events, including cases of pulmonary emboli (some fatal), deep vein thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and strokes, in women using etonogestrel implants. NEXPLANON should be removed in the event of a thrombosis. Due to the risk of thromboembolism associated with pregnancy and immediately following delivery, NEXPLANON should not be used prior to 21 days postpartum. Women with a history of thromboembolic disorders should be made aware of the possibility of a recurrence. Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately if there is unexplained loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, papilledema, or retinal vascular lesions. Consider removal of the NEXPLANON implant in case of long-term immobilization due to surgery or illness. 5.5 Ovarian Cysts If follicular development occurs, atresia of the follicle is sometimes delayed, and the follicle may continue to grow beyond the size it would attain in a normal cycle. Generally, these enlarged follicles disappear spontaneously. On rare occasion, surgery may be required. 5.6 Carcinoma of the Breast and Reproductive Organs Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use hormonal contraception because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications (4)]. Some studies suggest that the use of combination hormonal contraceptives might increase the incidence of breast cancer; however, other studies have not confirmed such findings. Some studies suggest that the use of combination hormonal contraceptives is associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia. However, there is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors. Women with a family history of breast cancer or who develop breast nodules should be carefully monitored. 5.7 Liver Disease Disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of hormonal contraceptive use until markers of liver function return to normal. Remove NEXPLANON if jaundice develops. Hepatic adenomas are associated with combination hormonal contraceptives use. An estimate of the attributable risk is 3.3 cases per 100,000 for combination hormonal contraceptives users. It is not known whether a similar risk exists with progestin-only methods like NEXPLANON. The progestin in NEXPLANON may be poorly metabolized in women with liver impairment. Use of NEXPLANON in women with active liver disease or liver cancer is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.8 Weight Gain In clinical studies, mean weight gain in U.S. non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant (IMPLANON) users was 2.8 pounds after one year and 3.7 pounds after two years. How much of the weight gain was related to the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant is unknown. In studies, 2.3% of the users reported weight gain as the reason for having the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant removed. 5.9 Elevated Blood Pressure Women with a history of hypertension-related diseases or renal disease should be discouraged from using hormonal contraception. For women with well-controlled hypertension, use of NEXPLANON can be considered. Women with hypertension using NEXPLANON should be closely monitored. If sustained hypertension develops during the use of NEXPLANON, or if a significant increase in blood pressure does not respond adequately to antihypertensive therapy, NEXPLANON should be removed. 5.10 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among combination hormonal contraceptive users. It is not known whether a similar risk exists with progestin-only methods like NEXPLANON. 5.11 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Use of NEXPLANON may induce mild insulin resistance and small changes in glucose concentrations of unknown clinical significance. Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women using NEXPLANON. Women who are being treated for hyperlipidemia should be followed closely if they elect to use NEXPLANON. Some progestins may elevate LDL levels and may render the control of hyperlipidemia more difficult. 5.12 Depressed Mood Women with a history of depressed mood should be carefully observed. Consideration should be given to removing NEXPLANON in patients who become significantly depressed. 5.13 Return to Ovulation In clinical trials with the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant (IMPLANON), the etonogestrel levels in blood decreased below sensitivity of the assay by one week after removal of the implant. In addition, pregnancies were observed to occur as early as 7 to 14 days after removal. Therefore, a woman should re-start contraception immediately after removal of the implant if continued contraceptive protection is desired. 5.14 Fluid Retention Hormonal contraceptives may cause some degree of fluid retention. They should be prescribed with caution, and only with careful monitoring, in patients with conditions which might be aggravated by fluid retention. It is unknown if NEXPLANON causes fluid retention. 5.15 Contact Lenses Contact lens wearers who develop visual changes or changes in lens tolerance should be assessed by an ophthalmologist. 5.16 In Situ Broken or Bent Implant There have been reports of broken or bent implants while in the patient's arm. Based on in vitro data, when an implant is broken or bent, the release rate of etonogestrel may be slightly increased. When an implant is removed, it is important to remove it in its entirety [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is using NEXPLANON should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated health care. 5.18 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Sex hormone-binding globulin concentrations may be decreased for the first six months after NEXPLANON insertion followed by gradual recovery. Thyroxine concentrations may initially be slightly decreased followed by gradual recovery to baseline."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Vascular risks: Stop NuvaRing use if a thrombotic event occurs. Stop NuvaRing use at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery. Start no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery, in women who are not breastfeeding. (5.1) Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS): If patient exhibits signs or symptoms of TSS, consider the possibility of this diagnosis and initiate appropriate medical evaluation and treatment. (5.2) Liver disease: Discontinue NuvaRing use if jaundice develops. (5.3) High blood pressure: If used in women with well-controlled hypertension, monitor blood pressure and stop NuvaRing use if blood pressure rises significantly. (5.4) Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects: Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women. Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia. (5.7) Headache: Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue NuvaRing use if indicated. (5.8) Uterine bleeding: Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea. (5.9) 5.1 Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems Stop NuvaRing use if an arterial thrombotic or venous thromboembolic event (VTE) occurs. Stop NuvaRing use if there is unexplained loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, papilledema, or retinal vascular lesions. Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately. [See Adverse Reactions (6).] If feasible, stop NuvaRing at least four weeks before and through two weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism, and during and following prolonged immobilization. Start NuvaRing no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery, in women who are not breastfeeding. The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week, whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week. The use of CHCs increases the risk of VTE. Known risk factors for VTE include smoking, obesity, and family history of VTE, in addition to other factors that contraindicate use of CHCs [see Contraindications (4)]. Two epidemiologic studies1, 2, 3 that assessed the risk of VTE associated with the use of NuvaRing are described below. In these studies, which were required or sponsored by regulatory agencies, NuvaRing users had a risk of VTE similar to COC users (see Table 1 for adjusted hazard ratios). A large prospective, observational study, the Transatlantic Active Surveillance on Cardiovascular Safety of NuvaRing (TASC), investigated the risk of VTE for new users, and women who were switching to or restarting NuvaRing or COCs in a population that is representative of routine clinical users. The women were followed for 24 to 48 months. The results showed a similar risk of VTE among NuvaRing users (VTE incidence 8.3 per 10,000 WY) and women using COCs (VTE incidence 9.2 per 10,000 WY). For women using COCs that did not contain the progestins desogestrel (DSG) or gestodene (GSD), VTE incidence was 8.9 per 10,000 WY. A retrospective cohort study using data from 4 health plans in the US (FDA-funded Study in Kaiser Permanente and Medicaid databases) showed the VTE incidence for new users of NuvaRing to be 11.4 events per 10,000 WY, for new users of a levonorgestrel (LNG)-containing COC 9.2 events per 10,000 WY, and for users of other COCs available during the course of the studyIncludes low-dose COCs containing the following progestins: norgestimate, norethindrone, or levonorgestrel. 8.2 events per 10,000 WY. Table 1: Estimates (Hazard Ratios) of Venous Thromboembolism Risk in Users of NuvaRing Compared to Users of Combined Oral Contraceptives (COCs) Epidemiologic Study (Author, Year of Publication) Population Studied Comparator Product(s) Hazard Ratios (HR) (95% CI) TASC (Dinger, 2012) Initiators, including new users, switchers and restarters All COCs available during the course of the study Includes low-dose COCs containing the following progestins: chlormadinone acetate, cyproterone acetate, desogestrel, dienogest, drospirenone, ethynodiol diacetate, gestodene, levonorgestrel, norethindrone, norgestimate, or norgestrel COCs available excluding DSG- or GSD -containing OCs HRAdjusted for age, BMI, duration of use, VTE history: 0.8 (0.5-1.5) HR: 0.8 (0.4-1.7) FDA-funded Study in Kaiser Permanente and Medicaid databases (Sidney, 2011) First use of a combined hormonal contraceptive (CHC) during the study period COCs available during the course of the studyIncludes low-dose COCs containing the following progestins: norgestimate, norethindrone, or levonorgestrel HRAdjusted for age, site, year of entry into study: 1.1 (0.6-2.2) LNG/0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol HR: 1.0 (0.5-2.0) An increased risk of thromboembolic and thrombotic disease associated with the use of CHCs is well-established. Although the absolute VTE rates are increased for users of CHCs compared to non-users, the rates associated with pregnancy are even greater, especially during the post-partum period (see Figure 1). The frequency of VTE in women using CHCs has been estimated to be 3 to 12 cases per 10,000 women-years. The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of CHC use and after restarting a CHC following a break of at least four weeks. The risk of VTE due to CHCs gradually disappears after use is discontinued. Figure 1 shows the risk of developing a VTE for women who are not pregnant and do not use CHCs, for women who use CHCs, for pregnant women, and for women in the postpartum period. To put the risk of developing a VTE into perspective: If 10,000 women who are not pregnant and do not use CHCs are followed for one year, between 1 and 5 of these women will develop a VTE. Figure 1: Likelihood of Developing a VTE *CHC=combination hormonal contraception **Pregnancy data based on actual duration of pregnancy in the reference studies. Based on a model assumption that pregnancy duration is nine months, the rate is 7 to 27 per 10,000 WY. Several epidemiology studies indicate that third generation oral contraceptives, including those containing desogestrel (etonogestrel, the progestin in NuvaRing, is the biologically active metabolite of desogestrel), may be associated with a higher risk of VTE than oral contraceptives containing other progestins. Some of these studies indicate an approximate two-fold increased risk. However, data from other studies have not shown this two-fold increase in risk. Use of CHCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions, especially in women with other risk factors for these events. CHCs have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events (thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes). In general, the risk is greatest among older (>35 years of age), hypertensive women who also smoke. Use NuvaRing with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors. Figure 1 5.2 Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS) Cases of TSS have been reported by NuvaRing users. TSS has been associated with tampons and certain barrier contraceptives, and, in some cases the NuvaRing users were also using tampons. A causal relationship between the use of NuvaRing and TSS has not been established. If a patient exhibits signs or symptoms of TSS, consider the possibility of this diagnosis and initiate appropriate medical evaluation and treatment. 5.3 Liver Disease Impaired Liver Function Do not use NuvaRing in women with liver disease such as acute viral hepatitis or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis of the liver [see Contraindications (4)]. Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of CHC use until markers of liver function return to normal and CHC causation has been excluded [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. Discontinue NuvaRing use if jaundice develops. Liver Tumors NuvaRing is contraindicated in women with benign and malignant liver tumors [see Contraindications (4)]. Hepatic adenomas are associated with CHC use. An estimate of the attributable risk is 3.3 cases per 100,000 CHC users. Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra-abdominal hemorrhage. Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long term (>8 years) CHC users. However, the attributable risk of liver cancers in CHC users is less than one case per million users. 5.4 High Blood Pressure NuvaRing is contraindicated in women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Contraindications (4)]. For women with well-controlled hypertension, monitor blood pressure and stop NuvaRing use if blood pressure rises significantly. An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women using CHCs and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use. The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestin. 5.5 Vaginal Use NuvaRing may not be suitable for women with conditions that make the vagina more susceptible to vaginal irritation or ulceration. Vaginal/cervical erosion or ulceration in women using NuvaRing has been reported. In some cases, the ring adhered to vaginal tissue, necessitating removal by a healthcare provider. Some women are aware of the ring on occasion during the 21 days of use or during intercourse, and sexual partners may feel NuvaRing in the vagina. 5.6 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among CHC users. Use of CHCs may also worsen existing gallbladder disease. A past history of CHC-related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent CHC use. Women with a history of pregnancy-related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for CHC-related cholestasis. 5.7 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are using NuvaRing. CHCs may decrease glucose tolerance. Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemia. Some women will have adverse lipid changes while on CHCs. Women with hypertriglyceridemia, or a family history thereof, may be at an increased risk of pancreatitis when using CHCs. 5.8 Headache If a woman using NuvaRing develops new headaches that are recurrent, persistent, or severe, evaluate the cause and discontinue NuvaRing if indicated. Consider discontinuation of NuvaRing in the case of an increased frequency or severity of migraine during CHC use (which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event) [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.9 Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Unscheduled bleeding (breakthrough or intracyclic) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in women using CHCs, especially during the first three months of use. If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles, check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy. If pathology and pregnancy are excluded, bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different CHC. Bleeding patterns were evaluated in three large clinical studies. In the North American study (US and Canada, N=1,177), the percentages of subjects with breakthrough bleeding/spotting ranged from 7.2% to 11.7% during cycles 1-13. In the two non-US studies, the percentages of subjects with breakthrough bleeding/spotting ranged from 2.6% to 6.4% (Europe, N=1,145) and from 2.0% to 8.7% (Europe, Brazil, Chile, N=512). Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea If scheduled (withdrawal) bleeding does not occur, consider the possibility of pregnancy. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule, consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and take appropriate diagnostic measures. Occasional missed periods may occur with the appropriate use of NuvaRing. In the clinical studies, the percent of women who did not have withdrawal bleeding in a given cycle ranged from 0.3% to 3.8%. If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods, rule out pregnancy. Some women may experience amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after discontinuing CHC use, especially when such a condition was pre-existent. 5.10 Inadvertent Urinary Bladder Insertion There have been reports of inadvertent insertions of NuvaRing into the urinary bladder, which required cystoscopic removal. Assess for ring insertion into the urinary bladder in NuvaRing users who present with persistent urinary symptoms and are unable to locate the ring. 5.11 CHC Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy. Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect, particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned, when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy. Discontinue NuvaRing if pregnancy is confirmed. 5.12 Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue NuvaRing use if depression recurs to a serious degree. 5.13 Carcinoma of the Breasts and Cervix NuvaRing is contraindicated in women who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer is a hormonally-sensitive tumor [see Contraindications (4)]. There is substantial evidence that CHCs do not increase the incidence of breast cancer. Although some past studies have suggested that CHCs might increase the incidence of breast cancer, more recent studies have not confirmed such findings. Some studies suggest that CHCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia. However, there is controversy about the extent to which these findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors. 5.14 Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of CHCs may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. The dose of replacement thyroid hormones or cortisol therapy may need to be increased. 5.15 Monitoring A woman who is using NuvaRing should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. 5.16 Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema, exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema. 5.17 Chloasma Chloasma may occasionally occur, especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum. Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using NuvaRing."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions reported with the use of hormonal contraception are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Changes in Menstrual Bleeding Patterns [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Ectopic Pregnancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Thrombotic and Other Vascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Liver Disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Most common (>=10%) adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were change in menstrual bleeding pattern, headache, vaginitis, weight increase, acne, breast pain, abdominal pain, and pharyngitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials including 942 women who were evaluated for safety, change in menstrual bleeding patterns (irregular menses) was the most common adverse reaction causing discontinuation of use of IMPLANON (11.1% of women). Adverse reactions that resulted in a rate of discontinuation of >=1% are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment in 1% or More of Subjects in Clinical Trials of IMPLANON Adverse Reactions All Studies N = 942 Bleeding IrregularitiesIncludes \\\\"frequent\\\\", \\\\"heavy\\\\", \\\\"prolonged\\\\", \\\\"spotting\\\\", and other patterns of bleeding irregularity. 11.1% Emotional LabilityAmong US subjects (N=330), 6.1% experienced emotional lability that led to discontinuation. 2.3% Weight Increase 2.3% Headache 1.6% Acne 1.3% DepressionAmong US subjects (N=330), 2.4% experienced depression that led to discontinuation. 1.0% Other adverse reactions that were reported by at least 5% of subjects in clinical trials of IMPLANON are listed in Table 4. Table 4: Common Adverse Reactions Reported by >=5% of Subjects in Clinical Trials with IMPLANON Adverse Reaction All Studies N=942 Headache 24.9% Vaginitis 14.5% Weight increase 13.7% Acne 13.5% Breast pain 12.8% Abdominal pain 10.9% Pharyngitis 10.5% Leukorrhea 9.6% Influenza-like symptoms 7.6% Dizziness 7.2% Dysmenorrhea 7.2% Back pain 6.8% Emotional lability 6.5% Nausea 6.4% Pain 5.6% Nervousness 5.6% Depression 5.5% Hypersensitivity 5.4% Insertion site pain 5.2% Implant site complications were reported by 3.6% of subjects during any of the assessments in clinical trials. Pain was the most frequent implant site complication, reported during and/or after insertion, occurring in 2.9% of subjects. Additionally, hematoma, redness, and swelling were reported by 0.1%, 0.3%, and 0.3% of patients, respectively [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of IMPLANON. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, diarrhea, flatulence, vomiting. General disorders and administration site conditions: edema, fatigue, implant site reaction, pyrexia. Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reactions Infections and infestations: rhinitis, urinary tract infection. Investigations: clinically relevant rise in blood pressure, weight decreased. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: increased appetite. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia. Nervous system disorders: convulsions, migraine, somnolence. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions: ectopic pregnancy. Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, insomnia, libido decreased. Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria. Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discharge, breast enlargement, ovarian cyst, pruritus genital, vulvovaginal discomfort. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: angioedema, aggravation of angioedema and/or aggravation of hereditary angioedema, alopecia, chloasma, hypertrichosis, pruritus, rash, seborrhea, urticaria. Vascular disorders: hot flush. Complications related to insertion or removal of the implant reported include: bruising, slight local irritation, pain or itching, fibrosis at the implant site, paresthesia or paresthesia-like events, scarring and abscess. Expulsion or migration of the implant, have been reported, including to the chest wall. In some cases implants have been found within the vasculature including the pulmonary artery. Some cases of implants found within the pulmonary artery reported chest pain and/or dyspnea; others have been reported as asymptomatic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Surgical intervention might be necessary when removing the implant."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions reported with the use of hormonal contraception are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Changes in Menstrual Bleeding Patterns [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Ectopic Pregnancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Thrombotic and Other Vascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Liver Disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Most common (>=10%) adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were change in menstrual bleeding pattern, headache, vaginitis, weight increase, acne, breast pain, abdominal pain, and pharyngitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials involving 942 women who were evaluated for safety, change in menstrual bleeding patterns (irregular menses) was the most common adverse reaction causing discontinuation of use of the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant (IMPLANON) (11.1% of women). Adverse reactions that resulted in a rate of discontinuation of >=1% are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment in 1% or More of Subjects in Clinical Trials of the Non-Radiopaque Etonogestrel Implant (IMPLANON) Adverse Reactions All Studies N = 942 Bleeding IrregularitiesIncludes \\\\"frequent\\\\", \\\\"heavy\\\\", \\\\"prolonged\\\\", \\\\"spotting\\\\", and other patterns of bleeding irregularity. 11.1% Emotional LabilityAmong US subjects (N=330), 6.1% experienced emotional lability that led to discontinuation. 2.3% Weight Increase 2.3% Headache 1.6% Acne 1.3% DepressionAmong US subjects (N=330), 2.4% experienced depression that led to discontinuation. 1.0% Other adverse reactions that were reported by at least 5% of subjects in the non-radiopaque etonogestrel implant clinical trials are listed in Table 4. Table 4: Common Adverse Reactions Reported by >=5% of Subjects in Clinical Trials With the Non-Radiopaque Etonogestrel Implant (IMPLANON) Adverse Reactions All Studies N = 942 Headache 24.9% Vaginitis 14.5% Weight increase 13.7% Acne 13.5% Breast pain 12.8% Abdominal pain 10.9% Pharyngitis 10.5% Leukorrhea 9.6% Influenza-like symptoms 7.6% Dizziness 7.2% Dysmenorrhea 7.2% Back pain 6.8% Emotional lability 6.5% Nausea 6.4% Pain 5.6% Nervousness 5.6% Depression 5.5% Hypersensitivity 5.4% Insertion site pain 5.2% In a clinical trial of NEXPLANON, in which investigators were asked to examine the implant site after insertion, implant site reactions were reported in 8.6% of women. Erythema was the most frequent implant site complication, reported during and/or shortly after insertion, occurring in 3.3% of subjects. Additionally, hematoma (3.0%), bruising (2.0%), pain (1.0%), and swelling (0.7%) were reported. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of IMPLANON and NEXPLANON. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, diarrhea, flatulence, vomiting. General disorders and administration site conditions: edema, fatigue, implant site reaction, pyrexia. Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reactions. Infections and infestations: rhinitis, urinary tract infection. Investigations: clinically relevant rise in blood pressure, weight decreased. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: increased appetite. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia. Nervous system disorders: convulsions, migraine, somnolence. Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions: ectopic pregnancy. Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, insomnia, libido decreased. Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria. Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discharge, breast enlargement, ovarian cyst, pruritus genital, vulvovaginal discomfort. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: angioedema, aggravation of angioedema and/or aggravation of hereditary angioedema, alopecia, chloasma, hypertrichosis, pruritus, rash, seborrhea, urticaria. Vascular disorders: hot flush. Complications related to insertion or removal of the etonogestrel implants reported include: bruising, slight local irritation, pain or itching, fibrosis at the implant site, paresthesia or paresthesia-like events, scarring and abscess. Expulsion or migration of the implant have been reported, including to the chest wall. In some cases, implants have been found within the vasculature, including the pulmonary artery. Some cases of implants found within the pulmonary artery reported chest pain and/or dyspnea; others have been reported as asymptomatic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Surgical intervention might be necessary when removing the implant."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of CHCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling. Serious cardiovascular events and stroke [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Vascular events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Adverse reactions commonly reported by CHC users are: Irregular uterine bleeding Nausea Breast tenderness Headache The most common adverse reactions (>=2%) in clinical trials were: vaginitis, headache (including migraine), mood changes (e.g., depression, mood swings, mood altered, depressed mood, affect lability), device-related events (e.g., expulsion/discomfort/foreign body sensation), nausea/vomiting, vaginal discharge, increased weight, vaginal discomfort, breast pain/discomfort/tenderness, dysmenorrhea, abdominal pain, acne, and decreased libido. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck, Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Trials with a duration of 6 to 13 28-day cycles provided safety data. In total, 2,501 women, aged 18 to 41 contributed 24,520 cycles of exposure. Common Adverse Reactions (>= 2%): vaginitis (13.8%), headache (including migraine) (11.2%), mood changes (e.g., depression, mood swings, mood altered, depressed mood, affect lability) (6.4%), device-related events (e.g., expulsion/discomfort/foreign body sensation) (6.3%), nausea/vomiting (5.9%), vaginal discharge (5.7%), increased weight (4.9%), vaginal discomfort (4.0%), breast pain/discomfort/tenderness (3.8%), dysmenorrhea (3.5%), abdominal pain (3.2%), acne (2.4%), and decreased libido (2.0%). Adverse Reactions (>= 1%) Leading to Study Discontinuation: 13.0% of the women discontinued from the clinical trials due to an adverse reaction; the most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were device-related events (2.7%), mood changes (1.7%), headache (including migraine) (1.5%) and vaginal symptoms (1.2%). Serious Adverse Reactions: deep vein thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], anxiety, cholelithiasis, and vomiting. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of NuvaRing. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Immune system disorders: hypersensitivity Nervous system disorders: stroke/cerebrovascular accident Vascular disorders: arterial events (including arterial thromboembolism and myocardial infarction), aggravation of varicose veins Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: urticaria, chloasma Reproductive system and breast disorders: penile disorders, including local reactions on penis (in male partners of women using NuvaRing), galactorrhea"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, such as CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of CHCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with CHCs. (7) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on CHCs Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of CHCs and potentially diminishing the effectiveness of CHCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of CHCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of CHCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampicin, topiramate, rifabutin, rufinamide, aprepitant, and products containing St. John's wort. Interactions between CHCs and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back-up method when enzyme inducers are used with NuvaRing, and to continue back-up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability. The serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol were not affected by concomitant administration of oral amoxicillin or doxycycline in standard dosages during 10 days of antibiotic treatment. The effects of other antibiotics on etonogestrel or ethinyl estradiol concentrations have not been evaluated. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of CHCs Co-administration of atorvastatin and certain CHCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase AUC values for ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20-25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations. Co-administration of vaginal miconazole nitrate and NuvaRing increases the serum concentrations of etonogestrel and ethinyl estradiol by up to 40% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes in the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and /or progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir]) /HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]). 7.2 Effects of CHCs on Other Drugs CHCs containing ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole) and increase their plasma concentrations. CHCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen, clofibric acid, morphine, salicylic acid and temazepam. A significant decrease in the plasma concentrations of lamotrigine has been shown, likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. This may reduce seizure control, therefore, dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary. Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentrations of thyroid-binding globulin increase with use of CHCs. 7.3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, such as CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of progestin hormonal contraceptives or increase breakthrough bleeding. (7.1) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Coadministration of Other Products Drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize progestins may decrease the plasma concentrations of progestins, and may decrease the effectiveness of IMPLANON. In women on long-term treatment with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs, it is recommended to remove the implant and to advise a contraceptive method that is unaffected by the interacting drug. Some of these drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes, including CYP3A4, include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's wort Topiramate HIV Antiretrovirals Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV protease inhibitors or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Increase in Plasma Concentrations of Etonogestrel Associated with Coadministered Drugs CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma concentrations of etonogestrel. 7.3 Changes in Plasma Concentrations of Coadministered Drugs Hormonal contraceptives may affect the metabolism of other drugs. Consequently, plasma concentrations may either increase (for example, cyclosporin) or decrease (for example, lamotrigine). Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, such as CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of progestin hormonal contraceptives or increase breakthrough bleeding. (7.1) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated With Coadministration of Other Products Drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize progestins may decrease the plasma concentrations of progestins, and may decrease the effectiveness of NEXPLANON. In women on long-term treatment with hepatic enzyme inducing drugs, it is recommended to remove the implant and to advise a contraceptive method that is unaffected by the interacting drug. Some of these drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes, including CYP3A4, include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's wort topiramate HIV Antiretrovirals Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV protease inhibitors or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Increase in Plasma Concentrations of Etonogestrel Associated With Coadministered Drugs CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma concentrations of etonogestrel. 7.3 Changes in Plasma Concentrations of Coadministered Drugs Hormonal contraceptives may affect the metabolism of other drugs. Consequently, plasma concentrations may either increase (for example, cyclosporin) or decrease (for example, lamotrigine). Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events reported by five to 14% of women using NuvaRing(R) in clinical trials (n=2501) were the following: vaginitis, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, vaginal secretion, sinusitis, weight gain, and nausea. The most frequent system-organ class adverse events leading to discontinuation in one to 2.5% of women using NuvaRing(R) in the trials included the following: device-related events (foreign body sensation, coital problems, device expulsion), vaginal symptoms (discomfort/vaginitis/vaginal secretion), headache, emotional lability, and weight gain. Listed below are adverse reactions that have been associated with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives. These are also likely to apply to combination vaginal hormonal contraceptives, such as NuvaRing(R). An increased risk of the following serious adverse reactions has been associated with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS): Thrombophlebitis and venous thrombosis with or without embolism Arterial thromboembolism Pulmonary embolism Myocardial infarction Cerebral hemorrhage Cerebral thrombosis Hypertension Gallbladder disease Hepatic adenomas or benign liver tumors There is evidence of an association between the following conditions and the use of combination hormonal contraceptives: Mesenteric thrombosis Retinal thrombosis The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in users of combination hormonal contraceptives and are believed to be drug-related: Nausea Vomiting Gastrointestinal symptoms (such as abdominal pain, cramps and bloating) Breakthrough bleeding Spotting Change in menstrual flow Amenorrhea Temporary infertility after discontinuation of treatment Edema/fluid retention Melasma/chloasma which may persist Breast changes: tenderness, pain, enlargement, and secretion Decrease in serum folate levels Exacerbation of porphyria Aggravation of varicose veins Change in weight or appetite (increase or decrease) Change in cervical ectropion and secretion Possible diminution in lactation when given immediately postpartum Cholestatic jaundice Migraine headache Rash (allergic) Mood changes, including depression Vaginitis, including candidiasis Change in corneal curvature (steepening) Intolerance to contact lenses Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus Exacerbation of chorea Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, including urticaria, angioedema, and severe reactions with respiratory and circulatory symptoms The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in users of combination hormonal contraceptives and a causal association has been neither confirmed nor refuted: Pre-menstrual syndrome Cataracts Cystitis-like syndrome Headache Nervousness Dizziness Hirsutism Loss of scalp hair Erythema multiforme Dysmenorrhea Pancreatitis Erythema nodosum Hemorrhagic eruption Impaired renal function Hemolytic uremic syndrome Acne Changes in libido Colitis Budd-Chiari Syndrome Optic neuritis, which may lead to partial or complete loss of vision"$$
