
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ETOPOPHOS has been found to be well tolerated as a single agent in clinical studies involving 206 patients with a wide variety of malignancies, and in combination with cisplatin in 60 patients with small cell lung cancer. The most frequent clinically significant adverse experiences were leukopenia and neutropenia. The incidences of adverse experiences in the table that follows are derived from studies in which ETOPOPHOS was administered as a single agent. A total of 98 patients received total doses at or above 450 mg/m2 on a 5 consecutive day or day 1, 3, and 5 schedule during the first course of therapy. Summary of Adverse Events Reported With Single-Agent ETOPOPHOS Following Course 1 at Total Five Day Doses of >=450 mg/m2 Percent of Patients Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia <4000/mm3 91 <1000/mm3 17 Neutropenia <2000/mm3 88 <500/mm3 37 Thrombocytopenia <100,000/mm3 23 <50,000/mm3 9 Anemia <11 g/dL 72 <8 g/dL 19 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and/or vomiting 37 Anorexia 16 Mucositis 11 Constipation 8 Abdominal Pain 7 Diarrhea 6 Taste Alteration 6 Asthenia/Malaise 39 Alopecia 33 Chills and/or Fever 24 Dizziness 5 Extravasation/Phlebitis 5 Since etoposide phosphate is converted to etoposide, those adverse experiences that are associated with VePesid can be expected to occur with ETOPOPHOS. Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression after ETOPOPHOS administration is dose related and dose limiting with the leukocyte nadir counts occurring from day 15 to day 22 after initiation of drug therapy, granulocyte nadir counts occurring day 12 to 19 after initiation of drug therapy, and platelet nadirs occurring from day 10 to 15. Bone marrow recovery usually occurs by day 21 but may be delayed, and no cumulative toxicity has been reported. Fever and infection have also been reported in patients with neutropenia. Death associated with myelosuppression has been reported following etoposide administration. Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities. The severity of such nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate with treatment discontinuation required in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting can usually be controlled with standard antiemetic therapy. Blood Pressure Changes In clinical studies, 151 patients were treated with ETOPOPHOS with infusion times ranging from 30 minutes to 3.5 hours. Sixty-three patients received ETOPOPHOS as a 5-minute bolus infusion. Four patients experienced one or more episodes of hypertension and eight patients experienced one or more episodes of hypotension, which may or may not be drug related. One episode of hypotension was reported among those patients who received a 5-minute bolus infusion. If clinically significant hypotension or hypertension occurs with ETOPOPHOS, appropriate supportive therapy should be initiated. Allergic Reactions Anaphylactic-type reactions characterized by chills, rigors, tachycardia, bronchospasm, dyspnea, diaphoresis, fever, pruritus, hypertension or hypotension, loss of consciousness, nausea, and vomiting have been reported to occur in 3% (7/245) of all patients treated with ETOPOPHOS. Facial flushing was reported in 2% and skin rashes in 3% of patients receiving ETOPOPHOS. These reactions have usually responded promptly to the cessation of the infusion and administration of pressor agents, corticosteroids, antihistamines, or volume expanders as appropriate; however, the reactions can be fatal. Hypertension and/or flushing have also been reported. Blood pressure usually normalizes within a few hours after cessation of the initial infusion. Anaphylactic-like reactions have occurred during the initial infusion of ETOPOPHOS (see WARNINGS ). Facial/tongue swelling, coughing, diaphoresis, cyanosis, tightness in throat, laryngospasm, back pain, and/or loss of consciousness have sometimes occurred in association with the above reactions. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity-associated apnea has been reported. Rash, urticaria, and/or pruritus have been reported at recommended doses. At investigational doses, a generalized pruritic erythematous maculopapular rash, consistent with perivasculitis, has been reported. Alopecia Reversible alopecia, sometimes progressing to total baldness, was observed in up to 44% of patients. Other Toxicities The following adverse reactions have been reported: abdominal pain, aftertaste, constipation, dysphagia, fever, transient cortical blindness, interstitial pneumonitis/pulmonary fibrosis, optic neuritis, pigmentation, seizure (occasionally associated with allergic reactions), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, radiation recall dermatitis, arrhythmia, and myocardial infarction. Hepatic toxicity may be seen. Local soft tissue toxicity has been reported following extravasation of ETOPOPHOS. Infiltration of ETOPOPHOS may result in swelling, pain, cellulitis, and necrosis including skin necrosis. The incidences of adverse reactions in the table that follows are derived from multiple databases from studies in 2081 patients when VePesid was used either orally or by injection as a single agent. Adverse Drug Effects Observed With Single-Agent VePesid Percent Range of Reported Incidence Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia (<1000/mm3) 3-17 Leukopenia (<4000/mm3) 60-91 Thrombocytopenia (<50,000/mm3) 1-20 Thrombocytopenia (<100,000/mm3) 22-41 Anemia 0-33 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and vomiting 31-43 Abdominal pain 0-2 Anorexia 10-13 Diarrhea 1-13 Stomatitis 1-6 Hepatic 0-3 Alopecia 8-66 Peripheral neurotoxicity 1-2 Hypotension 1-2 Allergic Reaction 1-2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following data on adverse reactions are based on both oral and intravenous administration of etoposide as a single agent, using several different dose schedules for treatment of a wide variety of malignancies. Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression is dose related and dose limiting, with granulocyte nadirs occurring 7 to 14 days after drug administration and platelet nadirs occurring 9 to 16 days after drug administration. Bone marrow recovery is usually complete by day 20, and no cumulative toxicity has been reported. Fever and infection have also been reported in patients with neutropenia. Death associated with myelosuppression has been reported. The occurrence of acute leukemia with or without a preleukemic phase has been reported rarely in patients treated with etoposide in association with other antineoplastic agents (see WARNINGS). Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities. The severity of such nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate with treatment discontinuation required in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting can usually be controlled with standard antiemetic therapy. Mild to severe mucositis/esophagitis may occur. Gastrointestinal toxicities are slightly more frequent after oral administration than after intravenous infusion. Hypotension Transient hypotension following rapid intravenous administration has been reported in 1% to 2% of patients. It has not been associated with cardiac toxicity or electrocardiographic changes. No delayed hypotension has been noted. To prevent this rare occurrence, it is recommended that etoposide be administered by slow intravenous infusion over a 30- to 60-minute period. If hypotension occurs, it usually responds to cessation of the infusion and administration of fluids or other supportive therapy as appropriate. When restarting the infusion, a slower administration rate should be used. Allergic Reactions Anaphylactic-like reactions characterized by chills, fever, tachycardia, bronchospasm, dyspnea and/or hypotension have been reported to occur in 0.7% to 2% of patients receiving intravenous etoposide and in less than 1% of the patients treated with the oral capsules. These reactions have usually responded promptly to the cessation of the infusion and administration of pressor agents, corticosteroids, antihistamines or volume expanders as appropriate; however, the reactions can be fatal. Hypertension and/or flushing have also been reported. Blood pressure usually normalizes within a few hours after cessation of the infusion. Anaphylactic-like reactions have occurred during the initial infusion of etoposide. Facial/tongue swelling, coughing, diaphoresis, cyanosis, tightness in throat, laryngospasm, back pain and/or loss of consciousness have sometimes occurred in association with the above reactions. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity-associated apnea has been reported rarely. Rash, urticaria, and/or pruritus have infrequently been reported at recommended doses. At investigational doses, a generalized pruritic erythematous maculopapular rash, consistent with perivasculitis, has been reported. Alopecia Reversible alopecia, sometimes progressing to total baldness, was observed in up to 66% of patients. Other Toxicities The following adverse reactions have been infrequently reported: abdominal pain, aftertaste, constipation, dysphagia, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, somnolence, transient cortical blindness, optic neuritis, interstitial pneumonitis/pulmonary fibrosis, fever, seizure (occasionally associated with allergic reactions), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, pigmentation, and a single report of radiation recall dermatitis. Hepatic toxicity, generally in patients receiving higher doses of the drug than those recommended, has been reported with etoposide. Metabolic acidosis has also been reported in patients receiving higher doses. The incidences of adverse reactions in the table that follows are derived from multiple data bases from studies in 2,081 patients when etoposide was used either orally or by injection as a single agent. ADVERSE DRUG EFFECT PERCENT RANGE OF REPORTED INCIDENCE Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia (less than 1,000 WBC/mm3) Leukopenia (less than 4,000 WBC/mm3) Thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000 platelets/mm3) Thrombocytopenia (less than 100,000 platelets/mm3) Anemia 3 to 17 60 to 91 1 to 20 22 to 41 0 to 33 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and vomiting Abdominal pain Anorexia Diarrhea Stomatitis Hepatic 31 to 43 0 to 2 10 to 13 1 to 13 1 to 6 0 to 3 Alopecia Peripheral neurotoxicity Hypotension Allergic reaction 8 to 66 1 to 2 1 to 2 1 to 2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following data on adverse reactions are based on both oral and intravenous administration of etoposide as a single agent, using several different dose schedules for treatment of a wide variety of malignancies. Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression is dose related and dose limiting, with granulocyte nadirs occurring 7 to 14 days after drug administration and platelet nadirs occurring 9 to 16 days after drug administration. Bone marrow recovery is usually complete by day 20, and no cumulative toxicity has been reported. Fever and infection have also been reported in patients with neutropenia. Death associated with myelosuppression has been reported. The occurrence of acute leukemia with or without a preleukemic phase has been reported rarely in patients treated with etoposide in association with other antineoplastic agents (see WARNINGS ). Gastrointestingal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities. The severity of such nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate with treatment discontinuation required in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting can usually be controlled with standard antiemetic therapy. Mild to severe mucositis/esophagitis may occur. Gastrointestinal toxicities are slightly more frequent after oral administration than after intravenous infusion. Hypotension Transient hypotension following rapid intravenous administration has been reported in 1% to 2% of patients. It has not been associated with cardiac toxicity or electrocardiographic changes. No delayed hypotension has been noted. To prevent this rare occurrence, it is recommended that etoposide be administered by slow intravenous infusion over a 30 to 60 minute period. If hypotension occurs, it usually responds to cessation of the infusion and administration of fluids or other supportive therapy as appropriate. When restarting the infusion, a slower administration rate should be used. Allergic Reactions Anaphylactic-like reactions characterized by chills, fever, tachycardia, bronchospasm, dyspnea and/or hypotension have been reported to occur in 0.7% to 2% of patients receiving intravenous etoposide and in less than 1% of the patients treated with the oral capsules. These reactions have usually responded promptly to the cessation of the infusion and administration of pressor agents, corticosteroids, antihistamines, or volume expanders as appropriate; however, the reactions can be fatal. Hypertension and/or flushing have also been reported. Blood pressure usually normalizes within a few hours after cessation of the infusion. Anaphylactic-like reactions have occurred during the initial infusion of etoposide. Facial/tongue swelling, coughing, diaphoresis, cyanosis, tightness in throat, laryngospasm, back pain and/or loss of consciousness have sometimes occurred in association with the above reactions. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity-associated apnea has been reported rarely. Rash, urticaria, and/or pruritus have infrequently been reported at recommended doses. At investigational doses, a generalized pruritic erythematous maculopapular rash, consistent with perivasculitis, has been reported. Alopecia Reversible alopecia, sometimes progressing to total baldness, was observed in up to 66% of patients. Other Toxicities The following adverse reactions have been infrequently reported: abdominal pain, aftertaste, constipation, dysphagia, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, somnolence, transient cortical blindness, optic neuritis, interstitial pneumonitis/pulmonary fibrosis, fever, seizure, (occasionally associated with allergic reactions), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, pigmentation, and a single report of radiation recall dermatitis. Hepatic toxicity, generally in patients receiving higher doses of the drug than those recommended, has been reported with etoposide. Metabolic acidosis has also been reported in patients receiving higher doses. Reports of extravasation with swelling have been received postmarketing. Rarely extravasation has been associated with necrosis and venous induration. The incidences of adverse reactions in the table that follows are derived from multiple data bases from studies in 2,081 patients when etoposide was used either orally or by injection as a single agent. ADVERSE DRUG EFFECT PERCENT RANGE OF REPORTED INCIDENCE Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia (less than 1,000 WBC/mm3) 3 to 17 Leukopenia (less than 4,000 WBC/mm3) 60 to 91 Thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000 platelets/mm3) 1 to 20 Thrombocytopenia (less than 100,000 platelets/mm3) 22 to 41 Anemia 0 to 33 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and vomiting 31 to 43 Abdominal pain 0 to 2 Anorexia 10 to 13 Diarrhea 1 to 13 Stomatitis 1 to 6 Hepatic 0 to 3 Alopecia 8 to 66 Peripheral neurotoxicity 1 to 2 Hypotension 1 to 2 Allergic reaction 1 to 2",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following data on adverse reactions are based on both oral and intravenous administration of etoposide as a single agent, using several different dose schedules for treatment of a wide variety of malignancies. Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression is dose related and dose limiting, with granulocyte nadirs occurring 7 to 14 days after drug administration and platelet nadirs occurring 9 to 16 days after drug administration. Bone marrow recovery is usually complete by day 20, and no cumulative toxicity has been reported. Fever and infection have also been reported in patients with neutropenia. Death associated with myelosuppression has been reported. The occurrence of acute leukemia with or without a preleukemic phase has been reported rarely in patients treated with etoposide in association with other antineoplastic agents. (See WARNINGS section.) Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities. The severity of such nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate with treatment discontinuation required in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting can usually be controlled with standard antiemetic therapy. Mild to severe mucositis/esophagitis may occur. Gastrointestinal toxicities are slightly more frequent after oral administration than after intravenous infusion. Hypotension Transient hypotension following rapid intravenous administration has been reported in 1% to 2% of patients. It has not been associated with cardiac toxicity or electrocardiographic changes. No delayed hypotension has been noted. To prevent this rare occurrence, it is recommended that etoposide injection be administered by slow intravenous infusion over a 30- to 60-minute period. If hypotension occurs, it usually responds to cessation of the infusion and administration of fluids or other supportive therapy as appropriate. When restarting the infusion, a slower administration rate should be used. Allergic Reactions Anaphylactic-like reactions characterized by chills, fever, tachycardia, bronchospasm, dyspnea, and/or hypotension have been reported to occur in 0.7% to 2% of patients receiving intravenous etoposide and in less than 1% of the patients treated with the oral capsules. These reactions have usually responded promptly to the cessation of the infusion and administration of pressor agents, corticosteroids, antihistamines, or volume expanders as appropriate; however, the reactions can be fatal. Hypertension and/or flushing have also been reported. Blood pressure usually normalizes within a few hours after cessation of the infusion. Anaphylactic-like reactions have occurred during the initial infusion of etoposide. Facial/tongue swelling, coughing, diaphoresis, cyanosis, tightness in throat, laryngospasm, back pain, and/or loss of consciousness have sometimes occurred in association with the above reactions. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity-associated apnea has been reported rarely. Rash, urticaria, and/or pruritus have infrequently been reported at recommended doses. At investigational doses, a generalized pruritic erythematous maculopapular rash, consistent with perivasculitis, has been reported. Alopecia Reversible alopecia, sometimes progressing to total baldness, was observed in up to 66% of patients. Other Toxicities The following adverse reactions have been infrequently reported: abdominal pain, aftertaste, constipation, dysphagia, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, somnolence, transient cortical blindness, optic neuritis, interstitial pneumonitis/pulmonary fibrosis, fever, seizure (occasionally associated with allergic reactions), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, pigmentation, and a single report of radiation recall dermatitis. Hepatic toxicity, generally in patients receiving higher doses of the drug than those recommended, has been reported with etoposide. Metabolic acidosis has also been reported in patients receiving higher doses. Reports of extravasation with swelling have been received postmarketing. Rarely extravasation has been associated with necrosis and venous induration. The incidences of adverse reactions in the table that follows are derived from multiple data bases from studies in 2,081 patients when etoposide was used either orally or by injection as a single agent. ADVERSE DRUG EFFECT PERCENT RANGE OF REPORTED INCIDENCE Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia (less than 1,000 WBC/mm3) 3-17 Leukopenia (less than 4,000 WBC/mm3) 60-91 Thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000 platelets/mm3) 1-20 Thrombocytopenia (less than 100,000 platelets/mm3) 22-41 Anemia 0-33 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and vomiting 31-43 Abdominal pain 0-2 Anorexia 10-13 Diarrhea 1-13 Stomatitis 1-6 Hepatic 0-3 Alopecia 8-66 Peripheral neurotoxicity 1-2 Hypotension 1-2 Allergic reaction 1-2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following data on adverse reactions are based on both oral and intravenous administration of Etoposide Injection USP as a single agent, using several different dose schedules for treatment of a wide variety of malignancies. Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression is dose related and dose limiting, with granulocyte nadirs occurring 7 to 14 days after drug administration and platelet nadirs occurring 9 to 16 days after drug administration. Bone marrow recovery is usually complete by day 20, and no cumulative toxicity has been reported. Fever and infection, have also been reported in patients with neutropenia. Death associated with myelosuppression has been reported. The occurrence of acute leukemia with or without a preleukemic phase has been reported rarely in patients treated with Etoposide Injection USP in association with other antineoplastic agents. (See WARNINGS section.) Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities. The severity of such nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate with treatment discontinuation required in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting can usually be controlled with standard antiemetic therapy. Mild to severe mucositis/esophagitis may occur. Gastrointestinal toxicities are slightly more frequent after oral administration than after intravenous infusion. Hypotension Transient hypotension following rapid intravenous administration has been reported in 1% to 2% of patients. It has not been associated with cardiac toxicity or electrocardiographic changes. No delayed hypotension has been noted. To prevent this rare occurrence, it is recommended that Etoposide Injection USP be administered by slow intravenous infusion over a 30- to 60-minute period. If hypotension occurs, it usually responds to cessation of the infusion and administration of fluids or other supportive therapy as appropriate. When restarting the infusion, a slower administration rate should be used. Allergic Reactions Anaphylactic-like reactions characterized by chills, fever, tachycardia, bronchospasm, dyspnea, and/or hypotension have been reported to occur in 0.7% to 2% of patients receiving intravenous Etoposide Injection USP and in less than 1% of the patients treated with the oral capsules. These reactions have usually responded promptly to the cessation of the infusion and administration of pressor agents, corticosteroids, antihistamines, or volume expanders as appropriate; however, the reactions can be fatal. Hypertension and/or flushing have also been reported. Blood pressure usually normalizes within a few hours after cessation of the infusion. Anaphylactic-like reactions have occurred during the initial infusion of Etoposide Injection USP. Facial/tongue swelling, coughing, diaphoresis, cyanosis, tightness in throat, laryngospasm, back pain, and/or loss of consciousness have sometimes occurred in association with the above reactions. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity-associated apnea has been reported rarely. Rash, urticaria, and/or pruritus have infrequently been reported at recommended doses. At investigational doses, a generalized pruritic erythematous maculopapular rash, consistent with perivasculitis, has been reported. Alopecia Reversible alopecia, sometimes progressing to total baldness was observed in up to 66% of patients. Other Toxicities The following adverse reactions have been infrequently reported: abdominal pain, aftertaste, constipation, dysphagia, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, somnolence, transient cortical blindness, optic neuritis, interstitial pneumonitis/pulmonary fibrosis, fever, seizure (occasionally associated with allergic reactions), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, pigmentation, and a single report of radiation recall dermatitis. Hepatic toxicity, generally in patients receiving higher doses of the drug than those recommended, has been reported with Etoposide Injection USP. Metabolic acidosis has also been reported in patients receiving higher doses. Reports of extravasation with swelling have been received postmarketing. Rarely extravasation has been associated with necrosis and venous induration. The incidences of adverse reactions in the table that follows are derived from multiple databases from studies in 2,081 patients when Etoposide Injection USP was used either orally or by injection as a single agent. ADVERSE DRUG EFFECT PERCENT RANGE OF REPORTED INCIDENCE Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia (less than 1,000 WBC/mm3) 3-17 Leukopenia (less than 4,000 WBC/mm3) 60-91 Thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000 platelets/mm3) 1-20 Thrombocytopenia (less than 100,000 platelets/mm3) 22-41 Anemia 0-33 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and vomiting 31-43 Abdominal pain 0-2 Anorexia 10-13 Diarrhea 1-13 Stomatitis 1-6 Hepatic 0-3 Alopecia 8-66 Peripheral neurotoxicity 1-2 Hypotension 1-2 Allergic reaction 1-2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following data on adverse reactions are based on intravenous administration of etoposide Injection USP as a single agent, using several different dose schedules for treatment of a wide variety of malignancies. Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression is dose-related and dose-limiting, with granulocyte nadirs occurring 7 to 14 days after drug administration and platelet nadirs occurring 9 to 16 days after drug administration. Bone marrow recovery is usually complete by day 20, and no cumulative toxicity has been reported. Fever and infection have also been reported in patients with neutropenia. Death associated with myelosuppression has been reported. The occurrence of acute leukemia with or without a preleukemic phase has been reported rarely in patients treated with etoposide Injection USP in association with other antineoplastic agents. (See WARNINGS .) Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities. The severity of such nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate with treatment discontinuation required in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting can usually be controlled with standard antiemetic therapy. Mild to severe mucositis/esophagitis may occur. Gastrointestinal toxicities are slightly more frequent after oral administration than after intravenous infusion. Hypotension Transient hypotension following rapid intravenous administration has been reported in 1% to 2% of patients. It has not been associated with cardiac toxicity or electrocardiographic changes. No delayed hypotension has been noted. To prevent this rare occurrence, it is recommended that etoposide Injection USP be administered by slow intravenous infusion over a 30 to 60 minute period. If hypotension occurs, it usually responds to cessation of the infusion administration of fluids or other supportive therapy as appropriate. When restarting the infusion, a slower administration rate should be used. Allergic Reactions Anaphylactic-like reactions characterized by chills, fever, tachycardia, bronchospasm, dyspnea, and/or hypotension have been reported to occur in 0.7% to 2% of patients receiving intravenous etoposide Injection USP and in less than 1% of the patients treated with oral capsules. These reactions have usually responded promptly to the cessation of the infusion and administration of pressor agents, corticosteroids, antihistamines, or volume expanders as appropriate; however, the reactions can be fatal. Hypertension and/or flushing have also been reported. Blood pressure usually normalizes within a few hours after cessation of the infusion. Anaphylactic-like reactions have occurred during the initial infusion of etoposide Injection USP. Facial/tongue swelling, coughing, diaphoresis, cyanosis, tightness in throat, laryngospasm, back pain, and/or loss of consciousness have sometimes occurred in association with the above reactions. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity-associated apnea has been reported rarely. Rash, urticaria, and/or pruritus have infrequently been reported at recommended doses. At investigational doses, a generalized pruritic erythematous maculopapular rash, consistent with perivasculitis, has been reported. Alopecia Reversible alopecia, sometimes progressing to total baldness was observed in up to 66% of patients. Other Toxicities The following adverse reactions have been infrequently reported: abdominal pain, aftertaste, constipation, dysphagia, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, somnolence, transient cortical blindness, optic neuritis, interstitial pneumonitis/pulmonary fibrosis, fever, seizure (occasionally associated with allergic reactions), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, pigmentation, and a single report of radiation recall dermatitis. Hepatic toxicity, generally in patients receiving higher doses of the drug than those recommended, has been reported with etoposide Injection USP. Metabolic acidosis has also been reported in patients receiving higher doses. Reports of extravasation with swelling have been received postmarketing. Rarely extravasation has been associated with necrosis and venous induration. The incidences of adverse reactions in the table that follows are derived from multiple databases from studies in 2,081 patients when etoposide was used either orally or by injection as a single agent. ADVERSE DRUG EFFECT PERCENT RANGE OF REPORTED INCIDENCE Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia (less than 1,000 WBC/mm3) 3-17 Leukopenia (less than 4,000 WBC/mm3) 60-91 Thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000 platelets/mm3) 1-20 Thrombocytopenia (less than 100,000 platelets/mm3) 22-41 Anemia 0-33 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and vomiting 31-43 Abdominal pain 0-2 Anorexia 10-13 Diarrhea 1-13 Stomatitis 1-6 Hepatic 0-3 Alopecia 8-66 Peripheral neurotoxicity 1-2 Hypotension 1-2 Allergic reaction 1-2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following data on adverse reactions are based on intravenous administration of etoposide Injection USP as a single agent, using several different dose schedules for treatment of a wide variety of malignancies. Hematologic Toxicity Myelosuppression is dose-related and dose-limiting, with granulocyte nadirs occurring 7 to 14 days after drug administration and platelet nadirs occurring 9 to 16 days after drug administration. Bone marrow recovery is usually complete by day 20, and no cumulative toxicity has been reported. Fever and infection have also been reported in patients with neutropenia. Death associated with myelosuppression has been reported. The occurrence of acute leukemia with or without a preleukemic phase has been reported rarely in patients treated with etoposide Injection USP in association with other antineoplastic agents. (See WARNINGS .) Gastrointestinal Toxicity Nausea and vomiting are the major gastrointestinal toxicities. The severity of such nausea and vomiting is generally mild to moderate with treatment discontinuation required in 1% of patients. Nausea and vomiting can usually be controlled with standard antiemetic therapy. Mild to severe mucositis/esophagitis may occur. Gastrointestinal toxicities are slightly more frequent after oral administration than after intravenous infusion. Hypotension Transient hypotension following rapid intravenous administration has been reported in 1% to 2% of patients. It has not been associated with cardiac toxicity or electrocardiographic changes. No delayed hypotension has been noted. To prevent this rare occurrence, it is recommended that etoposide Injection USP be administered by slow intravenous infusion over a 30- to 60-minute period. If hypotension occurs, it usually responds to cessation of the infusion administration of fluids or other supportive therapy as appropriate. When restarting the infusion, a slower administration rate should be used. Allergic Reactions Anaphylactic-like reactions characterized by chills, fever, tachycardia, bronchospasm, dyspnea, and/or hypotension have been reported to occur in 0.7% to 2% of patients receiving intravenous etoposide Injection USP and in less than 1% of the patients treated with oral capsules. These reactions have usually responded promptly to the cessation of the infusion and administration of pressor agents, corticosteroids, antihistamines, or volume expanders as appropriate; however, the reactions can be fatal. Hypertension and/or flushing have also been reported. Blood pressure usually normalizes within a few hours after cessation of the infusion. Anaphylactic-like reactions have occurred during the initial infusion of etoposide Injection USP. Facial/tongue swelling, coughing, diaphoresis, cyanosis, tightness in throat, laryngospasm, back pain, and/or loss of consciousness have sometimes occurred in association with the above reactions. In addition, an apparent hypersensitivity-associated apnea has been reported rarely. Rash, urticaria, and/or pruritus have infrequently been reported at recommended doses. At investigational doses, a generalized pruritic erythematous maculopapular rash, consistent with perivasculitis, has been reported. Alopecia Reversible alopecia, sometimes progressing to total baldness was observed in up to 66% of patients. Other Toxicities The following adverse reactions have been infrequently reported: abdominal pain, aftertaste, constipation, dysphagia, asthenia, fatigue, malaise, somnolence, transient cortical blindness, optic neuritis, interstitial pneumonitis/pulmonary fibrosis, fever, seizure (occasionally associated with allergic reactions), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, pigmentation, and a single report of radiation recall dermatitis. Hepatic toxicity, generally in patients receiving higher doses of the drug than those recommended, has been reported with etoposide Injection USP. Metabolic acidosis has also been reported in patients receiving higher doses. Reports of extravasation with swelling have been received postmarketing. Rarely extravasation has been associated with necrosis and venous induration. The incidences of adverse reactions in the table that follows are derived from multiple databases from studies in 2,081 patients when etoposide was used either orally or by injection as a single agent. ADVERSE DRUG EFFECT PERCENT RANGE OF REPORTED INCIDENCE Hematologic toxicity Leukopenia (less than 1,000 WBC/mm 3) 3-17 Leukopenia (less than 4,000 WBC/mm 3) 60-91 Thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000 platelets/mm 3) 1-20 Thrombocytopenia (less than 100,000 platelets/mm 3) 22-41 Anemia 0-33 Gastrointestinal toxicity Nausea and vomiting 31-43 Abdominal pain 0-2 Anorexia 10-13 Diarrhea 1-13 Stomatitis 1-6 Hepatic 0-3 Alopecia 8-66 Peripheral neurotoxicity 1-2 Hypotension 1-2 Allergic reaction 1-2"$$
"Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when administering ETOPOPHOS with drugs that are known to inhibit phosphatase activities (e.g., levamisole hydrochloride). High-dose cyclosporin A resulting in concentrations above 2000 ng/mL administered with oral etoposide has led to an 80% increase in etoposide exposure with a 38% decrease in total body clearance of etoposide compared to etoposide alone. Concomitant use of antiepileptic medications including phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and valproic acid is associated with increased etoposide clearance and reduced efficacy of ETOPOPHOS. Concomitant warfarin therapy may result in elevated international normalized ratio (INR). Close monitoring of INR is recommended."$$
"Drug Interactions High-dose cyclosporin A resulting in concentrations above 2000 ng/mL administered with oral etoposide has led to an 80% increase in etoposide exposure with a 38% decrease in total body clearance of etoposide compared to etoposide alone."$$
