"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Never share a BYETTA pen between patients, even if the needle is changed (5.1). -Pancreatitis: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. Discontinue BYETTA promptly. BYETTA should not be restarted. Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis (5.2). -Hypoglycemia: Increased risk when BYETTA is used in combination with medications known to cause hypoglycemia (e.g., insulin or insulin secretagogue). Consider reducing the dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue (5.3). -Renal Impairment: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, sometimes requiring hemodialysis and kidney transplantation. BYETTA should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation. Caution should be applied when initiating BYETTA or escalating the dose of BYETTA in patients with moderate renal failure (5.4, 8.6, 12.3). -Severe Gastrointestinal Disease: Use of BYETTA is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease (e.g., gastroparesis) (5.5). -Hypersensitivity: Postmarketing reports with exenatide of hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema). The patient should discontinue BYETTA and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice (5.7). -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYETTA or any other antidiabetic drug (5.8). 5.1 Never Share a BYETTA Pen Between Patients BYETTA pens must never be shared between patients, even if the needle is changed. Pen-sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood-borne pathogens. 5.2 Acute Pancreatitis Based on postmarketing data, BYETTA has been associated with acute pancreatitis, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. After initiation of BYETTA, and after dose increases, observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis (including persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back, which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting). If pancreatitis is suspected, BYETTA should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. If pancreatitis is confirmed, BYETTA should not be restarted. Consider antidiabetic therapies other than BYETTA in patients with a history of pancreatitis. 5.3 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when BYETTA is used in combination with a sulfonylurea. Therefore, patients receiving BYETTA and a sulfonylurea may require a lower dose of the sulfonylurea to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. When BYETTA is used in combination with insulin, the dose of insulin should be evaluated. In patients at increased risk of hypoglycemia consider reducing the dose of insulin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. The concurrent use of BYETTA with prandial insulin has not been studied and cannot be recommended. It is also possible that the use of BYETTA with other glucose-independent insulin secretagogues (e.g., meglitinides) could increase the risk of hypoglycemia. For additional information on glucose-dependent effects see Mechanism of Action (12.1) . 5.4 Renal Impairment BYETTA should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. In patients with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis, single doses of BYETTA 5 mcg were not well tolerated due to gastrointestinal side effects. Because BYETTA may induce nausea and vomiting with transient hypovolemia, treatment may worsen renal function. Caution should be applied when initiating or escalating doses of BYETTA from 5 to 10 mcg in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min). There have been postmarketing reports of altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure and acute renal failure, sometimes requiring hemodialysis or kidney transplantation. Some of these events occurred in patients receiving one or more pharmacologic agents known to affect renal function or hydration status, such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or diuretics. Some events occurred in patients who had been experiencing nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, with or without dehydration. Reversibility of altered renal function has been observed in many cases with supportive treatment and discontinuation of potentially causative agents, including BYETTA. Exenatide has not been found to be directly nephrotoxic in preclinical or clinical studies. 5.5 Gastrointestinal Disease BYETTA has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including gastroparesis. Because BYETTA is commonly associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, the use of BYETTA is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease. 5.6 Immunogenicity Patients may develop antibodies to exenatide following treatment with BYETTA. Antibody levels were measured in 90% of subjects in the 30-week, 24-week, and 16-week placebo-controlled studies and the 30-week comparator-controlled study of BYETTA. In 3%, 4%, 1%, and 1% of these patients, respectively, antibody formation was associated with an attenuated glycemic response. If there is worsening glycemic control or failure to achieve targeted glycemic control, alternative antidiabetic therapy should be considered [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 5.7 Hypersensitivity There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema) in patients treated with BYETTA. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the patient should discontinue BYETTA and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.8 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYETTA or any other antidiabetic drug.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Never share a BYETTA pen between patients, even if the needle is changed (5.1). -Pancreatitis: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. Discontinue BYETTA promptly. BYETTA should not be restarted. Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis (5.2). -Hypoglycemia: Increased risk when BYETTA is used in combination with medications known to cause hypoglycemia (e.g., insulin or insulin secretagogue). Consider reducing the dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue (5.3). -Renal Impairment: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, sometimes requiring hemodialysis and kidney transplantation. BYETTA should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation. Caution should be applied when initiating BYETTA or escalating the dose of BYETTA in patients with moderate renal failure (5.4, 8.6, 12.3). -Severe Gastrointestinal Disease: Use of BYETTA is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease (e.g., gastroparesis) (5.5). -Hypersensitivity: Postmarketing reports with exenatide of hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema). The patient should discontinue BYETTA and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice (5.7). -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYETTA or any other antidiabetic drug (5.8). 5.1 Never Share a BYETTA Pen Between Patients BYETTA pens should never be shared between patients, even if the needle is changed. Pen-sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood-borne pathogens. 5.2 Acute Pancreatitis Based on postmarketing data, BYETTA has been associated with acute pancreatitis, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. After initiation of BYETTA, and after dose increases, observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis (including persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back, which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting). If pancreatitis is suspected, BYETTA should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. If pancreatitis is confirmed, BYETTA should not be restarted. Consider antidiabetic therapies other than BYETTA in patients with a history of pancreatitis. 5.3 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when BYETTA is used in combination with a sulfonylurea. Therefore, patients receiving BYETTA and a sulfonylurea may require a lower dose of the sulfonylurea to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. When BYETTA is used in combination with insulin, the dose of insulin should be evaluated. In patients at increased risk of hypoglycemia consider reducing the dose of insulin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. The concurrent use of BYETTA with prandial insulin has not been studied and cannot be recommended. It is also possible that the use of BYETTA with other glucose-independent insulin secretagogues (e.g., meglitinides) could increase the risk of hypoglycemia. For additional information on glucose-dependent effects see Mechanism of Action (12.1) . 5.4 Renal Impairment BYETTA should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. In patients with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis, single doses of BYETTA 5 mcg were not well tolerated due to gastrointestinal side effects. Because BYETTA may induce nausea and vomiting with transient hypovolemia, treatment may worsen renal function. Caution should be applied when initiating or escalating doses of BYETTA from 5 to 10 mcg in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min). There have been postmarketing reports of altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure and acute renal failure, sometimes requiring hemodialysis or kidney transplantation. Some of these events occurred in patients receiving one or more pharmacologic agents known to affect renal function or hydration status, such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or diuretics. Some events occurred in patients who had been experiencing nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, with or without dehydration. Reversibility of altered renal function has been observed in many cases with supportive treatment and discontinuation of potentially causative agents, including BYETTA. Exenatide has not been found to be directly nephrotoxic in preclinical or clinical studies. 5.5 Gastrointestinal Disease BYETTA has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including gastroparesis. Because BYETTA is commonly associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, the use of BYETTA is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease. 5.6 Immunogenicity Patients may develop antibodies to exenatide following treatment with BYETTA. Antibody levels were measured in 90% of subjects in the 30-week, 24-week, and 16-week studies of BYETTA. In 3%, 4%, and 1% of these patients, respectively, antibody formation was associated with an attenuated glycemic response. If there is worsening glycemic control or failure to achieve targeted glycemic control, alternative antidiabetic therapy should be considered [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 5.7 Hypersensitivity There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema) in patients treated with BYETTA. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the patient should discontinue BYETTA and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.8 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYETTA or any other antidiabetic drug.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Pancreatitis: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. Discontinue BYETTA promptly. BYETTA should not be restarted. Consider other antidiabetic therapies in patients with a history of pancreatitis (5.1). Hypoglycemia: Increased risk when BYETTA is used in combination with medications known to cause hypoglycemia (e.g. insulin or insulin secretagogue). Consider reducing the dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue (5.2). Renal Impairment: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, sometimes requiring hemodialysis and kidney transplantation. BYETTA should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation. Caution should be applied when initiating BYETTA or escalating the dose of BYETTA in patients with moderate renal failure (5.3, 8.6, 12.3) Severe Gastrointestinal Disease: Use of BYETTA is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease (e.g., gastroparesis) (5.4). Hypersensitivity: Postmarketing reports with exenatide of hypersensitivity reactions (e.g. anaphylaxis and angioedema). The patient should discontinue BYETTA and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice (5.6). Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYETTA or any other antidiabetic drug (5.7). 5.1 Acute Pancreatitis Based on postmarketing data BYETTA has been associated with acute pancreatitis, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. After initiation of BYETTA, and after dose increases, observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis (including persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back, which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting). If pancreatitis is suspected, BYETTA should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. If pancreatitis is confirmed, BYETTA should not be restarted. Consider antidiabetic therapies other than BYETTA in patients with a history of pancreatitis. 5.2 Use with Medications Known to Cause Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when BYETTA is used in combination with a sulfonylurea. Therefore, patients receiving BYETTA and a sulfonylurea may require a lower dose of the sulfonylurea to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. When BYETTA is used in combination with insulin, the dose of insulin should be evaluated. In patients at increased risk of hypoglycemia consider reducing the dose of insulin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The concurrent use of BYETTA with prandial insulin has not been studied and cannot be recommended. It is also possible that the use of BYETTA with other glucose-independent insulin secretagogues (e.g. meglitinides) could increase the risk of hypoglycemia. For additional information on glucose dependent effects see Mechanism of Action (12.1) . 5.3 Renal Impairment BYETTA should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. In patients with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis, single doses of BYETTA 5 mcg were not well-tolerated due to gastrointestinal side effects. Because BYETTA may induce nausea and vomiting with transient hypovolemia, treatment may worsen renal function. Caution should be applied when initiating or escalating doses of BYETTA from 5 mcg to 10 mcg in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min). There have been postmarketing reports of altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure and acute renal failure, sometimes requiring hemodialysis or kidney transplantation. Some of these events occurred in patients receiving one or more pharmacologic agents known to affect renal function or hydration status, such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or diuretics. Some events occurred in patients who had been experiencing nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, with or without dehydration. Reversibility of altered renal function has been observed in many cases with supportive treatment and discontinuation of potentially causative agents, including BYETTA. Exenatide has not been found to be directly nephrotoxic in preclinical or clinical studies. 5.4 Gastrointestinal Disease BYETTA has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including gastroparesis. Because BYETTA is commonly associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, the use of BYETTA is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease. 5.5 Immunogenicity Patients may develop antibodies to exenatide following treatment with BYETTA. Antibody levels were measured in 90% of subjects in the 30-week, 24-week and 16-week studies of BYETTA. In 3%, 4% and 1% of these patients, respectively, antibody formation was associated with an attenuated glycemic response. If there is worsening glycemic control or failure to achieve targeted glycemic control, alternative antidiabetic therapy should be considered [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Hypersensitivity There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g. anaphylaxis and angioedema) in patients treated with BYETTA. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the patient should discontinue BYETTA and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.7 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYETTA or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Thyroid C-cell tumors in animals: Human relevance unknown. Counsel patients regarding the risk of medullary thyroid carcinoma and the symptoms of thyroid tumors (5.1). -Pancreatitis: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. Discontinue promptly if pancreatitis is suspected. Do not restart if pancreatitis is confirmed. Consider other antidiabetic therapies if patient has history of pancreatitis (5.2). -Hypoglycemia: Increased risk when BYDUREON is used in combination with a sulfonylurea. Consider reducing the sulfonylurea dose (5.3). -Renal Impairment: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, sometimes requiring hemodialysis and kidney transplantation. Not recommended if patient has severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease. Use with caution in patients with renal transplantation or moderate renal impairment (5.4, 8.6, 12.3). -Severe Gastrointestinal Disease: Not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease (e.g., gastroparesis) (5.5). -Hypersensitivity: Postmarketing reports with exenatide of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema). In such cases, patients are to discontinue BYDUREON and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice (5.7). -Injection-site reactions: There have been postmarketing reports of serious injection-site reactions with or without subcutaneous nodules (5.8). -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYDUREON or any other antidiabetic drug (5.9). 5.1 Risk of Thyroid C-cell Tumors In both genders of rats, exenatide extended-release caused a dose-related and treatment-duration-dependent increase in the incidence of thyroid C-cell tumors (adenomas and/or carcinomas) at clinically relevant exposures compared to controls [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1) ]. A statistically significant increase in malignant thyroid C-cell carcinomas was observed in female rats receiving exenatide extended-release at 25-times clinical exposure compared to controls and higher incidences were noted in males above controls in all treated groups at >=2-times clinical exposure. The potential of exenatide extended-release to induce C-cell tumors in mice has not been evaluated. Other GLP-1 receptor agonists have also induced thyroid C-cell adenomas and carcinomas in male and female mice and rats at clinically relevant exposures. It is unknown whether BYDUREON will cause thyroid C-cell tumors, including medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), in humans as the human relevance of exenatide extended-release-induced rodent thyroid C-cell tumors could not be determined by clinical or nonclinical studies. Serum calcitonin was not assessed in the clinical trials supporting the approval of BYDUREON [see Boxed Warning and Contraindications (4.1) ]. Serum calcitonin is a biological marker of MTC. Patients with MTC usually have calcitonin values >50 ng/L. Patients with thyroid nodules noted on physical examination or neck imaging should be referred to an endocrinologist for further evaluation. Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin or using thyroid ultrasound is of uncertain value for early detection of MTC in patients treated with BYDUREON. Such monitoring may increase the risk of unnecessary procedures, due to the low specificity of serum calcitonin testing for MTC and a high background incidence of thyroid disease. If serum calcitonin is measured and found to be elevated, the patient should be referred to an endocrinologist for further evaluation [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 5.2 Acute Pancreatitis Based on postmarketing data, exenatide has been associated with acute pancreatitis, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. After initiation of BYDUREON, observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis (including persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back, which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting). If pancreatitis is suspected, BYDUREON should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. If pancreatitis is confirmed, BYDUREON should not be restarted. Consider antidiabetic therapies other than BYDUREON in patients with a history of pancreatitis. 5.3 Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when exenatide is used in combination with a sulfonylurea. Therefore, patients receiving BYDUREON and a sulfonylurea may require a lower dose of the sulfonylurea to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. It is also possible that the use of BYDUREON with other glucose-independent insulin secretagogues (e.g., meglitinides) could increase the risk of hypoglycemia. For additional information on glucose-dependent effects see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1) . 5.4 Renal Impairment BYDUREON should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. In patients with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis, single doses of BYETTA 5 mcg were not well tolerated due to gastrointestinal side effects. Because BYDUREON may induce nausea and vomiting with transient hypovolemia, treatment may worsen renal function. Use BYDUREON with caution in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. BYDUREON has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease or severe renal impairment. There have been postmarketing reports of altered renal function with exenatide, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure and acute renal failure, sometimes requiring hemodialysis or kidney transplantation. Some of these events occurred in patients receiving one or more pharmacologic agents known to affect renal function or hydration status such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or diuretics. Some events occurred in patients who had been experiencing nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, with or without dehydration. Reversibility of altered renal function has been observed in many cases with supportive treatment and discontinuation of potentially causative agents, including exenatide. Exenatide has not been found to be directly nephrotoxic in preclinical or clinical studies. 5.5 Gastrointestinal Disease Exenatide has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including gastroparesis. Because exenatide is commonly associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, the use of BYDUREON is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease. 5.6 Immunogenicity Patients may develop antibodies to exenatide following treatment with BYDUREON. Anti-exenatide antibodies were measured in all BYDUREON-treated patients in the five comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week studies of BYDUREON. In 6% of BYDUREON-treated patients, antibody formation was associated with an attenuated glycemic response. If there is worsening glycemic control or failure to achieve targeted glycemic control, alternative antidiabetic therapy should be considered [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 5.7 Hypersensitivity There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema) in patients treated with exenatide. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the patient should discontinue BYDUREON and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.8 Injection-Site Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious injection-site reactions (e.g., abscess, cellulitis, and necrosis), with or without subcutaneous nodules, with the use of BYDUREON. Isolated cases required surgical intervention [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.9 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYDUREON or any other antidiabetic drug.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Thyroid C-cell Tumors: See Boxed Warning (5.1). - Pancreatitis: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. Discontinue promptly if pancreatitis is suspected. Do not restart if pancreatitis is confirmed. Consider other antidiabetic therapies if patient has history of pancreatitis (5.2). - Hypoglycemia: When BYDUREON is used in combination with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., a sulfonylurea) or insulin, consider lowering the dose of the secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia (5.3). - Renal Impairment: Postmarketing reports with exenatide, sometimes requiring hemodialysis and kidney transplantation. Not recommended if patient has severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease. Use with caution in patients with renal transplantation or moderate renal impairment (5.4, 8.6, 12.3). - Severe Gastrointestinal Disease: Not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease (e.g., gastroparesis) (5.5). - Hypersensitivity: Postmarketing reports with exenatide of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema). In such cases, patients are to discontinue BYDUREON and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice (5.7). - Injection-site Reactions: There have been postmarketing reports of serious injection-site reactions with or without subcutaneous nodules (5.8). - Macrovascular Outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYDUREON or any other antidiabetic drug (5.9). 5.1 Risk of Thyroid C-cell Tumors In both genders of rats, exenatide extended-release caused a dose-related and treatment-duration-dependent increase in the incidence of thyroid C-cell tumors (adenomas and/or carcinomas) at clinically relevant exposures compared to controls [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1) ]. A statistically significant increase in malignant thyroid C-cell carcinomas was observed in female rats receiving exenatide extended-release at 25-times clinical exposure compared to controls and higher incidences were noted in males above controls in all treated groups at >=2-times clinical exposure. The potential of exenatide extended-release to induce C-cell tumors in mice has not been evaluated. Other GLP-1 receptor agonists have also induced thyroid C-cell adenomas and carcinomas in male and female mice and rats at clinically relevant exposures. It is unknown whether BYDUREON will cause thyroid C-cell tumors, including medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), in humans as the human relevance of exenatide extended-release-induced rodent thyroid C-cell tumors has not been determined. Cases of MTC in patients treated with liraglutide, another GLP-1 receptor agonist, have been reported in the postmarketing period; the data in these reports are insufficient to establish or exclude a causal relationship between MTC and GLP-1 receptor agonist use in humans. BYDUREON is contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC or in patients with MEN 2. Counsel patients regarding the potential risk of MTC with the use of BYDUREON and inform them of symptoms of thyroid tumors (e.g., a mass in the neck, dysphagia, dyspnea, persistent hoarseness). Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin or using thyroid ultrasound is of uncertain value for early detection of MTC in patients treated with BYDUREON. Such monitoring may increase the risk of unnecessary procedures, due to the low specificity of serum calcitonin testing for MTC and a high background incidence of thyroid disease. Significantly elevated serum calcitonin may indicate MTC and patients with MTC usually have values >50 ng/L. If serum calcitonin is measured and found to be elevated, the patient should be further evaluated. Patients with thyroid nodules noted on physical examination or neck imaging should also be further evaluated. 5.2 Acute Pancreatitis Based on postmarketing data, exenatide has been associated with acute pancreatitis, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis. After initiation of BYDUREON, observe patients carefully for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis (including persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back, which may or may not be accompanied by vomiting). If pancreatitis is suspected, BYDUREON should promptly be discontinued and appropriate management should be initiated. If pancreatitis is confirmed, BYDUREON should not be restarted. Consider antidiabetic therapies other than BYDUREON in patients with a history of pancreatitis. 5.3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use of Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin The risk of hypoglycemia is increased when exenatide is used in combination with insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas) or insulin. Patients may require a lower dose of the secretagogue or insulin to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia in this setting [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 5.4 Renal Impairment BYDUREON should not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease and should be used with caution in patients with renal transplantation [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. In patients with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis, single doses of BYETTA 5 mcg were not well tolerated due to gastrointestinal side effects. Because BYDUREON may induce nausea and vomiting with transient hypovolemia, treatment may worsen renal function. Use BYDUREON with caution in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. BYDUREON has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease or severe renal impairment. There have been postmarketing reports of altered renal function with exenatide, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure and acute renal failure, sometimes requiring hemodialysis or kidney transplantation. Some of these events occurred in patients receiving one or more pharmacologic agents known to affect renal function or hydration status such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or diuretics. Some events occurred in patients who had been experiencing nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, with or without dehydration. Reversibility of altered renal function has been observed in many cases with supportive treatment and discontinuation of potentially causative agents, including exenatide. Exenatide has not been found to be directly nephrotoxic in preclinical or clinical studies. 5.5 Gastrointestinal Disease Exenatide has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including gastroparesis. Because exenatide is commonly associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, the use of BYDUREON is not recommended in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease. 5.6 Immunogenicity Patients may develop antibodies to exenatide following treatment with BYDUREON. Anti-exenatide antibodies were measured in BYDUREON-treated patients in five of the six comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week studies of BYDUREON. In 6% of BYDUREON-treated patients, antibody formation was associated with an attenuated glycemic response. If there is worsening glycemic control or failure to achieve targeted glycemic control, alternative antidiabetic therapy should be considered [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 and 6.2) ]. 5.7 Hypersensitivity There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema) in patients treated with exenatide. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, the patient should discontinue BYDUREON and other suspect medications and promptly seek medical advice [see Adverse Reactions (6.4) ]. 5.8 Injection-Site Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious injection-site reactions (e.g., abscess, cellulitis, and necrosis), with or without subcutaneous nodules, with the use of BYDUREON. Isolated cases required surgical intervention [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ]. 5.9 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with BYDUREON or any other antidiabetic drug.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common (>=5%) and occurring more frequently than comparator in clinical trials: nausea, diarrhea, headache, vomiting, constipation, injection-site pruritus, injection-site nodule, and dyspepsia (5.3, 6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AstraZeneca at 1-800-236-9933 and www.bydureon.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of BYDUREON was assessed in five comparator-controlled trials in patients who entered the studies not achieving adequate glycemic control on their current therapy. In a double-blind 26-week trial, patients on diet and exercise were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly), sitagliptin 100 mg daily, pioglitazone 45 mg daily, or metformin 2000 mg daily. In a double-blind 26-week trial, patients on metformin were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly), sitagliptin 100 mg daily, or pioglitazone 45 mg daily. In an open-label 26-week trial, patients on metformin or metformin plus sulfonylurea were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly) or optimized insulin glargine. In two open-label 24- to 30-week studies, patients on diet and exercise or metformin, a sulfonylurea, a thiazolidinedione, or combination of oral agents were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly) or BYETTA 10 mcg twice daily. Withdrawals The incidence of withdrawal due to adverse events was 4.9% (N=45) for BYDUREON-treated patients, 4.9% (N=13) for BYETTA-treated patients, and 2.0% (N=23) for other comparator-treated patients in the five comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials. The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYDUREON-treated patients were nausea 0.5% (N=5) versus 1.5% (N=4) for BYETTA and 0.3% (N=3) for other comparators, injection-site nodule 0.5% (N=5) versus 0.0% for BYETTA and 0.0% for other comparators, diarrhea 0.3% (N=3) versus 0.4% (N=1) for BYETTA and 0.3% (N=3) for other comparators, injection-site reaction 0.2% (N=2) versus 0.0% for BYETTA and 0.0% for other comparators, and headache 0.2% (N=2) versus 0.0% for BYETTA and 0.0% for other comparators. Hypoglycemia Table 1 summarizes the incidence and rate of minor hypoglycemia in the five comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials of BYDUREON used as monotherapy or as add-on to metformin, a sulfonylurea, a thiazolidinedione, or combination of these oral antidiabetic agents. In these trials, an event was classified as minor hypoglycemia if there were symptoms of hypoglycemia with a concomitant glucose <54 mg/dL and the patient was able to self-treat. Table 1: Incidence (% of Subjects) and Rate (Episodes/Subject Year) of Minor Hypoglycemia in the Monotherapy Trial and in the Combination Therapy Trials 26-Week Monotherapy Trial N = number of intent-to-treat patients. Note: Percentages are based on the number of intent-to-treat patients in each treatment group.  Reported event that has symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia with a concomitant glucose <54 mg/dL and the patient was able to self-treat. \\342\\200\\241 Insulin glargine was dosed to a target fasting glucose concentration of 72 to 100 mg/dL. The mean dose of insulin glargine was 10 Units/day at baseline and 31 Units/day at endpoint. BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 248) 2.0% (0.05) Sitagliptin 100 mg (N = 163) 0.0% (0.00) Pioglitazone 45 mg (N = 163) 0.0% (0.00) Metformin 2000 mg QD (N = 246) 0.0% (0.00) 26-Week Add-On to Metformin Trial BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 160) 1.3% (0.03) Sitagliptin 100 mg (N = 166) 3.0% (0.12) Pioglitazone 45 mg (N = 165) 1.2% (0.03) 26-Week Add-On to Metformin or Metformin + Sulfonylurea Trial With Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 136) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 70) 20.0% (1.11) Titrated Insulin Glargine (N = 66) 43.9% (2.87) Without Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 320) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 163) 3.7% (0.11) Titrated Insulin Glargine\\342\\200\\241 (N = 157) 19.1% (0.64) 24-Week Monotherapy or Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial With Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 74) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 40) 12.5% (0.72) BYETTA 10 mcg (N = 34) 11.8% (0.31) Without Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 178) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 89) 0.0% (0.00) BYETTA 10 mcg (N = 89) 0.0% (0.00) 30-Week Monotherapy or Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial With Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 107) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 55) 14.5% (0.55) BYETTA 10 mcg (N = 52) 15.4% (0.37) Without Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 186) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 93) 0.0% (0.00) BYETTA 10 mcg (N = 93) 1.1% (0.02) There were no reported events of major hypoglycemia in these five comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials. Major hypoglycemia was defined as loss of consciousness, seizure, or coma (or other mental status change consistent with neuroglycopenia in the judgment of the investigator or physician) which resolved after administration of glucagon or glucose or required third-party assistance to resolve because of severe impairment in consciousness or behavior. Patients were to have a concomitant glucose <54 mg/dL. Immunogenicity Anti-exenatide antibodies were measured at prespecified intervals (4-14 weeks) in all BYDUREON-treated patients (N=918) in the five comparator-controlled studies of BYDUREON. In these five trials, 452 BYDUREON-treated patients (49%) had low titer antibodies (<=125) to exenatide at any time during the trials and 405 BYDUREON-treated patients (45%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at study endpoint (24-30 weeks). The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 379 BYDUREON-treated patients (43%) without antibody titers. An additional 107 BYDUREON-treated patients (12%) had higher titer antibodies at endpoint. Of these patients, 50 (6% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYDUREON (<0.7% reduction in HbA1c); the remaining 57 (6% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In the 30-week trial in which anti-exenatide antibody assessments were performed at baseline and at 4-week intervals from week 6 to week 30, the mean anti-exenatide antibody titer in the BYDUREON-treated patients peaked at week 6 then declined by 56% from this peak by week 30. A total of 246 patients with antibodies to exenatide in the BYETTA and BYDUREON clinical trials were tested for the presence of cross-reactive antibodies to GLP-1 and/or glucagon. No treatment-emergent cross-reactive antibodies were observed across the range of titers. Other Adverse Reactions BYDUREON Tables 2 and 3 summarize adverse reactions with an incidence >=5% reported in the five comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials of BYDUREON used as monotherapy or as add-on to metformin, a sulfonylurea, a thiazolidinedione, or combination of these oral antidiabetic agents. Table 2: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported in >=5% of BYDUREON-Treated Patients in Monotherapy Trial 26-Week Monotherapy Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 248 % Sitagliptin 100 mg N = 163 % Pioglitazone 45 mg N = 163 % Metformin 2000 mg N = 246 % N = number of intent-to-treat patients. Note: Percentages are based on the number of intent-to-treat patients in each treatment group.  Patients in the sitagliptin, pioglitazone, and metformin treatment groups received weekly placebo injections. Nausea 11.3 3.7 4.3 6.9 Diarrhea 10.9 5.5 3.7 12.6 Injection-site nodule 10.5 6.7 3.7 10.2 Constipation 8.5 2.5 1.8 3.3 Headache 8.1 9.2 8.0 12.2 Dyspepsia 7.3 1.8 4.9 3.3 Table 3: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported in >=5% of BYDUREON-Treated Patients in 24- to 30-Week Add-On Combination Therapy Trials N = number of intent-to-treat patients. Note: Percentages are based on the number of intent-to-treat patients in each treatment group.  Patients in the sitagliptin, pioglitazone, and metformin treatment groups received weekly placebo injections. 26-Week Add-On to Metformin Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 160 % Sitagliptin 100 mg N = 166 % Pioglitazone 45 mg N = 165 % Nausea 24.4 9.6 4.8 Diarrhea 20.0 9.6 7.3 Vomiting 11.3 2.4 3.0 Headache 9.4 9.0 5.5 Constipation 6.3 3.6 1.2 Fatigue 5.6 0.6 3.0 Dyspepsia 5.0 3.6 2.4 Decreased appetite 5.0 1.2 0.0 Injection-site pruritus 5.0 4.8 1.2 26-Week Add-On to Metformin or Metformin + Sulfonylurea Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 233 % Insulin Glargine Titrated N = 223 % Nausea 12.9 1.3 Headache 9.9 7.6 Diarrhea 9.4 4.0 Injection-site nodule 6.0 0.0 30-Week Monotherapy or as Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 148 % BYETTA 10 mcg N = 145 % Nausea 27.0 33.8 Diarrhea 16.2 12.4 Vomiting 10.8 18.6 Injection-site pruritus 18.2 1.4 Constipation 10.1 6.2 Gastroenteritis viral 8.8 5.5 Gastroesophageal reflux disease 7.4 4.1 Dyspepsia 7.4 2.1 Injection-site erythema 7.4 0.0 Fatigue 6.1 3.4 Headache 6.1 4.8 Injection-site hematoma 5.4 11.0 24-Week Monotherapy or as Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 129 % BYETTA 10 mcg N = 123 % Nausea 14.0 35.0 Diarrhea 9.3 4.1 Injection-site erythema 5.4 2.4 Nausea was the most common adverse reaction associated with initiation of treatment with BYDUREON, and usually decreased over time. Injection-Site Reactions In the five comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials, injection-site reactions were observed more frequently in patients treated with BYDUREON (17.1%) than in patients treated with BYETTA (12.7%), titrated insulin glargine (1.8%), or those patients who received placebo injections (sitagliptin (10.6%), pioglitazone (6.4%), and metformin (13.0%) treatment groups). These reactions for patients treated with BYDUREON were more commonly observed in antibody-positive patients (14.2%) compared with antibody-negative patients (3.1%), with a greater incidence in those with higher titer antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Incidence of injection-site reactions for patients treated with BYETTA was similar for antibody-positive patients (5.8%) and antibody-negative patients (7.0%). One percent of patients treated with BYDUREON withdrew due to injection-site adverse reactions (injection-site mass, injection-site nodule, injection-site pruritus, and injection-site reaction). Subcutaneous injection-site nodules may occur with the use of BYDUREON. In a separate 15-week study in which information on nodules were collected and analyzed, 24 out of 31 subjects (77%) experienced at least 1 injection-site nodule during treatment; 2 subjects (6.5%) reported accompanying localized symptoms. The mean duration of events was 27 days. The formation of nodules is consistent with the known properties of the microspheres used in BYDUREON. BYETTA In three 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA (N=963) add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence of >=1% and reported more frequently than with placebo included nausea (44% BYETTA, 18% placebo), vomiting (13% BYETTA, 4% placebo), diarrhea (13% BYETTA, 6% placebo), feeling jittery (9% BYETTA, 4% placebo), dizziness (9% BYETTA, 6% placebo), headache (9% BYETTA, 6% placebo), dyspepsia (6% BYETTA, 3% placebo), asthenia (4% BYETTA, 2% placebo), gastroesophageal reflux (3% BYETTA, 1% placebo), hyperhidrosis (3% BYETTA, 1% placebo), and decreased appetite (1% BYETTA, <1% placebo). Similar types of adverse reactions were observed in 24-week and 16-week controlled trials of BYETTA used as monotherapy or as add-on to a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin, respectively. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience BYDUREON Allergy/Hypersensitivity: injection-site reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. BYETTA The following additional adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of BYETTA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergy/Hypersensitivity: injection-site reactions, generalized pruritus and/or urticaria, macular or papular rash, angioedema; anaphylactic reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Drug Interactions: increased international normalized ratio (INR), sometimes associated with bleeding, with concomitant warfarin use [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea resulting in dehydration; abdominal distension, abdominal pain, eructation, constipation, flatulence, acute pancreatitis, hemorrhagic and necrotizing pancreatitis sometimes resulting in death [see Indications and Usage (1.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Neurologic: dysgeusia; somnolence Renal and Urinary Disorders: altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure or acute renal failure (sometimes requiring hemodialysis), kidney transplant and kidney transplant dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common (>=5%) and occurring more frequently than placebo in clinical trials: nausea, hypoglycemia, vomiting, diarrhea, feeling jittery, dizziness, headache, dyspepsia, constipation, asthenia. Nausea usually decreases over time (5.2, 6). Postmarketing reports with exenatide of increased international normalized ratio (INR) with concomitant use of warfarin, sometimes with bleeding (6.2, 7.2). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-868-1190 and www.byetta.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Hypoglycemia Table 1 summarizes the incidence and rate of hypoglycemia with BYETTA in six placebo-controlled clinical trials. Table 1: Incidence (%) and Rate of Hypoglycemia When BYETTA was Used as Monotherapy or With Concomitant Antidiabetic Therapy in Six Placebo-Controlled Clinical TrialsA hypoglycemic episode was recorded if a patient reported symptoms of hypoglycemia with or without a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia. Severe hypoglycemia was defined as an event with symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia requiring the assistance of another person and associated with either a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia or prompt recovery after treatment for hypoglycemia. BYETTA Placebo twice daily 5 mcg twice daily 10 mcg twice daily N = The number of Intent-to-Treat subjects in each treatment group. Monotherapy (24 Weeks) N 77 77 78 % Overall 1.3% 5.2% 3.8% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.03 0.21 0.52 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With Metformin (30 Weeks) N 113 110 113 % Overall 5.3% 4.5% 5.3% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.12 0.13 0.12 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With a Sulfonylurea (30 Weeks) N 123 125 129 % Overall 3.3% 14.4% 35.7% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.07 0.64 1.61 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With Metformin and a Sulfonylurea (30 Weeks) N 247 245 241 % Overall 12.6% 19.2% 27.8% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.58 0.78 1.71 % Severe 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% With a Thiazolidinedione (16 Weeks) N 112 not evaluated 121 % Overall 7.1% not evaluated 10.7% Rate (episodes/patient-years) 0.56 not evaluated 0.98 % Severe 0.0% not evaluated 0.0% With Insulin Glargine (30 Weeks) When BYETTA was initiated in combination with insulin glargine, the dose of insulin glargine was decreased by 20% in patients with an HbA1c <= 8.0 % to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. See Table 9 for insulin dose titration algorithm. N 122 not evaluated 137 % Overall 29.5% not evaluated 24.8% Rate (episodes/patient-years) 1.58 not evaluated 1.61 % Severe 0.8% not evaluated 0.0% Immunogenicity Antibodies were assessed in 90% of subjects in the 30-week, 24-week and 16-week studies of BYETTA. In the 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, antibodies were assessed at 2- to 6-week intervals. The mean antibody titer peaked at week 6 and was reduced by 55% by week 30. Three hundred and sixty patients (38%) had low titer antibodies (<625) to exenatide at 30 weeks. The level of glycemic control (HbA1c) in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 534 patients (56%) without antibody titers. An additional 59 patients (6%) had higher titer antibodies (>=625) at 30 weeks. Of these patients, 32 (3% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 27 (3% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. In the 16-week trial of BYETTA add-on to thiazolidinediones, with or without metformin, 36 patients (31%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at 16 weeks. The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 69 patients (60%) without antibody titer. An additional 10 patients (9%) had higher titer antibodies at 16 weeks. Of these patients, 4 (4% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 6 (5% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. In the 24-week trial of BYETTA used as monotherapy, 40 patients (28%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at 24 weeks. The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 101 patients (70%) without antibody titers. An additional 3 patients (2%) had higher titer antibodies at 24 weeks. Of these patients, 1 (1% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 2 (1% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Antibodies to exenatide were not assessed in the 30-week trial of BYETTA used in combination with insulin glargine. Two hundred and ten patients with antibodies to exenatide in the BYETTA clinical trials were tested for the presence of cross-reactive antibodies to GLP-1 and/or glucagon. No treatment-emergent cross reactive antibodies were observed across the range of titers. Other Adverse Reactions Monotherapy For the 24-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA used as a monotherapy, Table 2 summarizes adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) occurring with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence With BYETTA Used as Monotherapy (Excluding Hypoglycemia)In a 24-week placebo-controlled trial. Monotherapy Placebo BID N = 77 % All BYETTA BID N = 155 % BID = twice daily. Nausea 0 8 Vomiting 0 4 Dyspepsia 0 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0 to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite, diarrhea, and dizziness. The most frequently reported adverse reaction associated with BYETTA, nausea, occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. Two of the 155 patients treated with BYETTA withdrew due to adverse reactions of headache and nausea. No placebo-treated patients withdrew due to adverse reactions. Combination Therapy Add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea In the three 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] are summarized in Table 3. Table 3: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence and Greater Incidence With BYETTA Treatment Used With Metformin and/or a Sulfonylurea (Excluding Hypoglycemia)In three 30-week placebo-controlled clinical trials. Placebo BID N = 483 % All BYETTA BID N = 963 % BID = twice daily. Nausea 18 44 Vomiting 4 13 Diarrhea 6 13 Feeling Jittery 4 9 Dizziness 6 9 Headache 6 9 Dyspepsia 3 6 Asthenia 2 4 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 1 3 Hyperhidrosis 1 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0 to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite. Nausea was the most frequently reported adverse reaction and occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. With continued therapy, the frequency and severity decreased over time in most of the patients who initially experienced nausea. Patients in the long-term uncontrolled open-label extension studies at 52 weeks reported no new types of adverse reactions than those observed in the 30-week controlled trials. The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (3% of patients) and vomiting (1%). For placebo-treated patients, <1% withdrew due to nausea and none due to vomiting. Add-on to thiazolidinedione with or without metformin For the 16-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA add-on to a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin, Table 4 summarizes the adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence of >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 4: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence With BYETTA Used With a Thiazolidinedione, With or Without Metformin (Excluding Hypoglycemia)In a 16-week placebo-controlled clinical trial. With a TZD or TZD/MET Placebo N = 112 % All BYETTA BID N = 121 % BID = twice daily. Nausea 15 40 Vomiting 1 13 Dyspepsia 1 7 Diarrhea 3 6 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 0 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0 to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite. Chills (n = 4) and injection-site reactions (n = 2) occurred only in BYETTA-treated patients. The two patients who reported an injection-site reaction had high titers of antibodies to exenatide. Two serious adverse events (chest pain and chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis) were reported in the BYETTA arm. No serious adverse events were reported in the placebo arm. The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (9%) and vomiting (5%). For placebo-treated patients, <1% withdrew due to nausea. Add-on to insulin glargine with or without metformin and/or thiazolidinedione For the 30-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA as add-on to insulin glargine with or without oral antihyperglycemic medications, Table 5 summarizes adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) occurring with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 5: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence With BYETTA Used With Insulin Glargine With or Without Oral Antihyperglycemic Medications (Excluding Hypoglycemia)In a 30-week placebo-controlled clinical trial. With Insulin Glargine Placebo N = 122 % All BYETTA BID N = 137 % BID = twice daily. Nausea 8 41 Vomiting 4 18 Diarrhea 8 18 Headache 4 14 Constipation 2 10 Dyspepsia 2 7 Asthenia 1 5 Abdominal Distension 1 4 Decreased Appetite 0 3 Flatulence 1 2 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 1 2 The most frequently reported adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (5.1%) and vomiting (2.9%). No placebo-treated patients withdrew due to nausea or vomiting. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported during post-approval use of BYETTA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergy/Hypersensitivity: injection-site reactions, generalized pruritus and/or urticaria, macular or papular rash, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Drug Interactions: International normalized ratio (INR) increased with concomitant warfarin use sometimes associated with bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea resulting in dehydration; abdominal distension, abdominal pain, eructation, constipation, flatulence, acute pancreatitis, hemorrhagic and necrotizing pancreatitis sometimes resulting in death [see Limitations of Use (1.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Neurologic: dysgeusia; somnolence Renal and Urinary Disorders: altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure or acute renal failure (sometimes requiring hemodialysis), kidney transplant and kidney transplant dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS -Most common (>=5%) and occurring more frequently than placebo in clinical trials: nausea, hypoglycemia, vomiting, diarrhea, feeling jittery, dizziness, headache, dyspepsia, constipation, asthenia. Nausea usually decreases over time (5.3, 6). -Postmarketing reports with exenatide of increased international normalized ratio (INR) with concomitant use of warfarin, sometimes with bleeding (6.2, 7.2). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AstraZeneca at 1-800-236-9933 and www.byetta.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Hypoglycemia Table 1 summarizes the incidence and rate of hypoglycemia with BYETTA in six placebo-controlled clinical trials. Table 1: Incidence (%) and Rate of Hypoglycemia when BYETTA was used as Monotherapy or with Concomitant Antidiabetic Therapy in Six Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials* Placebo BID BYETTA 5 mcg BID BYETTA 10 mcg BID *A hypoglycemic episode was recorded if a patient reported symptoms of hypoglycemia with or without a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia. Severe hypoglycemia was defined as an event with symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia requiring the assistance of another person and associated with either a documented blood glucose value <54 mg/dL or prompt recovery after treatment for hypoglycemia.  When BYETTA was initiated in combination with insulin glargine, the dose of insulin glargine was decreased by 20% in patients with an HbA1c <=8.0% to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. See Table 9 for insulin dose titration algorithm. N = number of Intent-to-Treat subjects in each treatment group. Monotherapy (24 Weeks) N 77 77 78 % Overall 1.3% 5.2% 3.8% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.03 0.21 0.52 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With Metformin (30 Weeks) N 113 110 113 % Overall 5.3% 4.5% 5.3% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.12 0.13 0.12 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With a Sulfonylurea (30 Weeks) N 123 125 129 % Overall 3.3% 14.4% 35.7% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.07 0.64 1.61 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With Metformin and a Sulfonylurea (30 Weeks) N 247 245 241 % Overall 12.6% 19.2% 27.8% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.58 0.78 1.71 % Severe 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% With a Thiazolidinedione (16 Weeks) N 112 not evaluated 121 % Overall 7.1% not evaluated 10.7% Rate (episodes/patient-years) 0.56 not evaluated 0.98 % Severe 0.0% not evaluated 0.0% With Insulin Glargine with or without Metformin and/or Thiazolidinedione (30 Weeks)  N 122 not evaluated 137 % Overall 29.5% not evaluated 24.8% Rate (episodes/patient-years) 1.58 not evaluated 1.61 % Severe 0.8% not evaluated 0.0% Immunogenicity Antibodies were assessed in 90% of subjects in the 30-week, 24-week, and 16-week studies of BYETTA. In the 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, antibodies were assessed at 2- to 6-week intervals. The mean antibody titer peaked at week 6 and was reduced by 55% by week 30. Three hundred and sixty patients (38%) had low titer antibodies (<625) to exenatide at 30 weeks. The level of glycemic control (HbA1c) in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 534 patients (56%) without antibody titers. An additional 59 patients (6%) had higher titer antibodies (>=625) at 30 weeks. Of these patients, 32 (3% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 27 (3% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In the 16-week trial of BYETTA add-on to thiazolidinediones, with or without metformin, 36 patients (31%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at 16 weeks. The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 69 patients (60%) without antibody titer. An additional 10 patients (9%) had higher titer antibodies at 16 weeks. Of these patients, 4 (4% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 6 (5% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In the 24-week trial of BYETTA used as monotherapy, 40 patients (28%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at 24 weeks. The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 101 patients (70%) without antibody titers. An additional 3 patients (2%) had higher titer antibodies at 24 weeks. Of these patients, 1 (1% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 2 (1% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Antibodies to exenatide were not assessed in the 30-week placebo-controlled trial of BYETTA used in combination with insulin glargine. In the 30-week comparator-controlled trial of BYETTA used in combination with insulin glargine and metformin, 60 patients (20%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at 30 weeks. The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 234 patients (77%) without antibody titers. An additional 10 patients (3%) had higher titer antibodies at 30 weeks. Of these patients, 2 (1% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 8 (3% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Two hundred and ten patients with antibodies to exenatide in the BYETTA clinical trials were tested for the presence of cross-reactive antibodies to GLP-1 and/or glucagon. No treatment-emergent cross-reactive antibodies were observed across the range of titers. Other Adverse Reactions Monotherapy For the 24-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA used as a monotherapy, Table 2 summarizes adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) occurring with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence with BYETTA used as Monotherapy (excluding Hypoglycemia)* Monotherapy Placebo BID N = 77 % All BYETTA BID N = 155 % * In a 24-week placebo-controlled trial. BID = twice daily. Nausea 0 8 Vomiting 0 4 Dyspepsia 0 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0% to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite, diarrhea, and dizziness. The most frequently reported adverse reaction associated with BYETTA, nausea, occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. Two of the 155 patients treated with BYETTA withdrew due to adverse reactions of headache and nausea. No placebo-treated patients withdrew due to adverse reactions. Combination Therapy Add-On to Metformin and/or Sulfonylurea In the three 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] are summarized in Table 3. Table 3: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence and Greater Incidence with BYETTA Treatment used with Metformin and/or a Sulfonylurea (excluding Hypoglycemia)* Placebo BID N = 483 % All BYETTA BID N = 963 % * In three 30-week placebo-controlled clinical trials. BID = twice daily. Nausea 18 44 Vomiting 4 13 Diarrhea 6 13 Feeling Jittery 4 9 Dizziness 6 9 Headache 6 9 Dyspepsia 3 6 Asthenia 2 4 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 1 3 Hyperhidrosis 1 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0% to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite. Nausea was the most frequently reported adverse reaction and occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. With continued therapy, the frequency and severity decreased over time in most of the patients who initially experienced nausea. Patients in the long-term uncontrolled open-label extension studies at 52 weeks reported no new types of adverse reactions than those observed in the 30-week controlled trials. The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (3% of patients) and vomiting (1%). For placebo-treated patients, <1% withdrew due to nausea and none due to vomiting. Add-On to Thiazolidinedione with or without Metformin For the 16-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA add-on to a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin, Table 4 summarizes the adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence of >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 4: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence with BYETTA used with a Thiazolidinedione (TZD), with or without Metformin (MET) (excluding Hypoglycemia)* With a TZD or TZD/MET Placebo N = 112 % All BYETTA BID N = 121 % * In a 16-week placebo-controlled clinical trial. BID = twice daily. Nausea 15 40 Vomiting 1 13 Dyspepsia 1 7 Diarrhea 3 6 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 0 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0% to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite. Chills (n=4) and injection-site reactions (n=2) occurred only in BYETTA-treated patients. The two patients who reported an injection-site reaction had high titers of antibodies to exenatide. Two serious adverse events (chest pain and chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis) were reported in the BYETTA arm. No serious adverse events were reported in the placebo arm. The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (9%) and vomiting (5%). For placebo-treated patients, <1% withdrew due to nausea. Add-On to Insulin Glargine with or without Metformin and/or Thiazolidinedione (Placebo-Controlled) For the 30-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA as add-on to insulin glargine with or without oral antihyperglycemic medications, Table 5 summarizes adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) occurring with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 5: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence with BYETTA used with Insulin Glargine with or without Oral Antihyperglycemic Medications (excluding Hypoglycemia)* With Insulin Glargine Placebo N = 122 % All BYETTA BID N = 137 % * In a 30-week placebo-controlled clinical trial. BID = twice daily. Nausea 8 41 Vomiting 4 18 Diarrhea 8 18 Headache 4 14 Constipation 2 10 Dyspepsia 2 7 Asthenia 1 5 Abdominal Distension 1 4 Decreased Appetite 0 3 Flatulence 1 2 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 1 2 The most frequently reported adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (5.1%) and vomiting (2.9%). No placebo-treated patients withdrew due to nausea or vomiting. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of BYETTA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergy/Hypersensitivity: injection-site reactions, generalized pruritus and/or urticaria, macular or papular rash, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Drug Interactions: International normalized ratio (INR) increased with concomitant warfarin use sometimes associated with bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea resulting in dehydration; abdominal distension, abdominal pain, eructation, constipation, flatulence, acute pancreatitis, hemorrhagic and necrotizing pancreatitis sometimes resulting in death [see Indications and Usage (1.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Neurologic: dysgeusia; somnolence Renal and Urinary Disorders: altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure or acute renal failure (sometimes requiring hemodialysis), kidney transplant and kidney transplant dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS -Most common (>=5%) and occurring more frequently than placebo in clinical trials: nausea, hypoglycemia, vomiting, diarrhea, feeling jittery, dizziness, headache, dyspepsia, constipation, asthenia. Nausea usually decreases over time (5.3, 6). -Postmarketing reports with exenatide of increased international normalized ratio (INR) with concomitant use of warfarin, sometimes with bleeding (6.2, 7.2). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-868-1190 and www.byetta.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Hypoglycemia Table 1 summarizes the incidence and rate of hypoglycemia with BYETTA in six placebo-controlled clinical trials. Table 1: Incidence (%) and Rate of Hypoglycemia when BYETTA was used as Monotherapy or with Concomitant Antidiabetic Therapy in Six Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials* Placebo BID BYETTA 5 mcg BID BYETTA 10 mcg BID * A hypoglycemic episode was recorded if a patient reported symptoms of hypoglycemia with or without a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia. Severe hypoglycemia was defined as an event with symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia requiring the assistance of another person and associated with either a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia or prompt recovery after treatment for hypoglycemia.  When BYETTA was initiated in combination with insulin glargine, the dose of insulin glargine was decreased by 20% in patients with an HbA1c <=8.0% to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. See Table 9 for insulin dose titration algorithm. N = number of Intent-to-Treat subjects in each treatment group. Monotherapy (24 Weeks) N 77 77 78 % Overall 1.3% 5.2% 3.8% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.03 0.21 0.52 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With Metformin (30 Weeks) N 113 110 113 % Overall 5.3% 4.5% 5.3% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.12 0.13 0.12 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With a Sulfonylurea (30 Weeks) N 123 125 129 % Overall 3.3% 14.4% 35.7% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.07 0.64 1.61 % Severe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% With Metformin and a Sulfonylurea (30 Weeks) N 247 245 241 % Overall 12.6% 19.2% 27.8% Rate (episodes/patient-year) 0.58 0.78 1.71 % Severe 0.0% 0.4% 0.0% With a Thiazolidinedione (16 Weeks) N 112 not evaluated 121 % Overall 7.1% not evaluated 10.7% Rate (episodes/patient-years) 0.56 not evaluated 0.98 % Severe 0.0% not evaluated 0.0% With Insulin Glargine (30 Weeks) N 122 not evaluated 137 % Overall 29.5% not evaluated 24.8% Rate (episodes/patient-years) 1.58 not evaluated 1.61 % Severe 0.8% not evaluated 0.0% Immunogenicity Antibodies were assessed in 90% of subjects in the 30-week, 24-week, and 16-week studies of BYETTA. In the 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, antibodies were assessed at 2- to 6-week intervals. The mean antibody titer peaked at week 6 and was reduced by 55% by week 30. Three hundred and sixty patients (38%) had low titer antibodies (<625) to exenatide at 30 weeks. The level of glycemic control (HbA1c) in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 534 patients (56%) without antibody titers. An additional 59 patients (6%) had higher titer antibodies (>=625) at 30 weeks. Of these patients, 32 (3% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 27 (3% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In the 16-week trial of BYETTA add-on to thiazolidinediones, with or without metformin, 36 patients (31%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at 16 weeks. The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 69 patients (60%) without antibody titer. An additional 10 patients (9%) had higher titer antibodies at 16 weeks. Of these patients, 4 (4% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 6 (5% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In the 24-week trial of BYETTA used as monotherapy, 40 patients (28%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at 24 weeks. The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 101 patients (70%) without antibody titers. An additional 3 patients (2%) had higher titer antibodies at 24 weeks. Of these patients, 1 (1% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYETTA; the remaining 2 (1% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Antibodies to exenatide were not assessed in the 30-week trial of BYETTA used in combination with insulin glargine. Two hundred and ten patients with antibodies to exenatide in the BYETTA clinical trials were tested for the presence of cross-reactive antibodies to GLP-1 and/or glucagon. No treatment-emergent cross-reactive antibodies were observed across the range of titers. Other Adverse Reactions Monotherapy For the 24-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA used as a monotherapy, Table 2 summarizes adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) occurring with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence with BYETTA used as Monotherapy (excluding Hypoglycemia)* Monotherapy Placebo BID N = 77 % All BYETTA BID N = 155 % * In a 24-week placebo-controlled trial. BID = twice daily. Nausea 0 8 Vomiting 0 4 Dyspepsia 0 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0% to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite, diarrhea, and dizziness. The most frequently reported adverse reaction associated with BYETTA, nausea, occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. Two of the 155 patients treated with BYETTA withdrew due to adverse reactions of headache and nausea. No placebo-treated patients withdrew due to adverse reactions. Combination Therapy Add-On to Metformin and/or Sulfonylurea In the three 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] are summarized in Table 3. Table 3: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence and Greater Incidence with BYETTA Treatment used with Metformin and/or a Sulfonylurea (excluding Hypoglycemia)* Placebo BID N = 483 % All BYETTA BID N = 963 % * In three 30-week placebo-controlled clinical trials. BID = twice daily. Nausea 18 44 Vomiting 4 13 Diarrhea 6 13 Feeling Jittery 4 9 Dizziness 6 9 Headache 6 9 Dyspepsia 3 6 Asthenia 2 4 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 1 3 Hyperhidrosis 1 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0% to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite. Nausea was the most frequently reported adverse reaction and occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. With continued therapy, the frequency and severity decreased over time in most of the patients who initially experienced nausea. Patients in the long-term uncontrolled open-label extension studies at 52 weeks reported no new types of adverse reactions than those observed in the 30-week controlled trials. The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (3% of patients) and vomiting (1%). For placebo-treated patients, <1% withdrew due to nausea and none due to vomiting. Add-On to Thiazolidinedione with or without Metformin For the 16-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA add-on to a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin, Table 4 summarizes the adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence of >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 4: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence with BYETTA used with a Thiazolidinedione (TZD), with or without Metformin (MET) (excluding Hypoglycemia)* With a TZD or TZD/MET Placebo N = 112 % All BYETTA BID N = 121 % * In a 16-week placebo-controlled clinical trial. BID = twice daily. Nausea 15 40 Vomiting 1 13 Dyspepsia 1 7 Diarrhea 3 6 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 0 3 Adverse reactions reported in >=1.0% to <2.0% of patients receiving BYETTA and reported more frequently than with placebo included decreased appetite. Chills (n=4) and injection-site reactions (n=2) occurred only in BYETTA-treated patients. The two patients who reported an injection-site reaction had high titers of antibodies to exenatide. Two serious adverse events (chest pain and chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis) were reported in the BYETTA arm. No serious adverse events were reported in the placebo arm. The most common adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (9%) and vomiting (5%). For placebo-treated patients, <1% withdrew due to nausea. Add-On to Insulin Glargine with or without Metformin and/or Thiazolidinedione For the 30-week placebo-controlled study of BYETTA as add-on to insulin glargine with or without oral antihyperglycemic medications, Table 5 summarizes adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) occurring with an incidence >=2% and occurring more frequently in BYETTA-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 5: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions >=2% Incidence with BYETTA used with Insulin Glargine with or without Oral Antihyperglycemic Medications (excluding Hypoglycemia)* With Insulin Glargine Placebo N = 122 % All BYETTA BID N = 137 % * In a 30-week placebo-controlled clinical trial. BID = twice daily. Nausea 8 41 Vomiting 4 18 Diarrhea 8 18 Headache 4 14 Constipation 2 10 Dyspepsia 2 7 Asthenia 1 5 Abdominal Distension 1 4 Decreased Appetite 0 3 Flatulence 1 2 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease 1 2 The most frequently reported adverse reactions leading to withdrawal for BYETTA-treated patients were nausea (5.1%) and vomiting (2.9%). No placebo-treated patients withdrew due to nausea or vomiting. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of BYETTA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergy/Hypersensitivity: injection-site reactions, generalized pruritus and/or urticaria, macular or papular rash, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Drug Interactions: International normalized ratio (INR) increased with concomitant warfarin use sometimes associated with bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea resulting in dehydration; abdominal distension, abdominal pain, eructation, constipation, flatulence, acute pancreatitis, hemorrhagic and necrotizing pancreatitis sometimes resulting in death [see Indications and Usage (1.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Neurologic: dysgeusia; somnolence Renal and Urinary Disorders: altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure or acute renal failure (sometimes requiring hemodialysis), kidney transplant and kidney transplant dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below or elsewhere in the prescribing information: -Risk of Thyroid C-cell Tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -Acute Pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] -Gastrointestinal Disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] -Immunogenicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] -Hypersensitivity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] -Injection-Site Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Most common (>=5%) and occurring more frequently than comparator in clinical trials: nausea, diarrhea, headache, vomiting, constipation, injection-site pruritus, injection-site nodule, and dyspepsia (5.3, 6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AstraZeneca at 1-800-236-9933 and www.bydureon.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of BYDUREON was assessed in six comparator-controlled trials in patients who entered the studies not achieving adequate glycemic control on their current therapy. In a double-blind 26-week trial, patients on diet and exercise were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly), sitagliptin 100 mg daily, pioglitazone 45 mg daily, or metformin 2000 mg daily. In a double-blind 26-week trial, patients on metformin were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly), sitagliptin 100 mg daily, or pioglitazone 45 mg daily. In an open-label 26-week trial, patients on metformin or metformin plus sulfonylurea were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly) or optimized insulin glargine. In two open-label 24- to 30-week studies, patients on diet and exercise or metformin, a sulfonylurea, a thiazolidinedione, or combination of oral agents were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg once every 7 days (weekly) or BYETTA 10 mcg twice daily. In an open-label 26-week trial, patients on metformin, a sulfonylurea, metformin plus a sulfonylurea, or metformin plus pioglitazone were treated with BYDUREON 2 mg every 7 days (weekly) or liraglutide 1.8 mg once daily. Withdrawals The incidence of withdrawal due to adverse events was 4.1% (N=57) for BYDUREON-treated patients, 4.9% (N=13) for BYETTA-treated patients, and 2.9% (N=46) for other comparator-treated patients in the six comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials. The most common classes of adverse reactions (0.5%) leading to withdrawal for BYDUREON-treated patients were, Gastrointestinal Disorders 1.6% (N=22) versus 4.1% (N=11) for BYETTA and 1.9% (N=30) for other comparators, and Administration Site Conditions 0.8% (N=11) versus 0.0% for BYETTA and 0.2% (N=3) for other comparators. The most frequent events within each of these respective classes were, nausea 0.4% (N=6) for BYDUREON versus 1.5% (N=4) for BYETTA and 0.8% (N=12) for other comparators, and injection-site nodule, 0.4% (N=6) for BYDUREON versus 0.0% for BYETTA and 0.0% for other comparators. Hypoglycemia Table 1 summarizes the incidence and rate of minor hypoglycemia in the six comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials of BYDUREON used as monotherapy or as add-on to metformin, a sulfonylurea, a thiazolidinedione, or combination of these oral antidiabetic agents. In these trials, an event was classified as minor hypoglycemia if there were symptoms of hypoglycemia with a concomitant glucose <54 mg/dL and the patient was able to self-treat. Table 1: Incidence (% of Subjects) and Rate (Episodes/Subject Year) of Minor Hypoglycemia in the Monotherapy Trial and in the Combination Therapy Trials N = number of intent-to-treat patients. Note: Percentages are based on the number of intent-to-treat patients in each treatment group.  Reported event that has symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia with a concomitant glucose <54 mg/dL and the patient was able to self-treat. \\342\\200\\241 Insulin glargine was dosed to a target fasting glucose concentration of 72 to 100 mg/dL. The mean dose of insulin glargine was 10 units/day at baseline and 31 units/day at endpoint. 26-Week Monotherapy Trial BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 248) 2.0% (0.05) Sitagliptin 100 mg (N = 163) 0.0% (0.00) Pioglitazone 30-45 (mean dose 40) mg (N = 163) 0.0% (0.00) Metformin 1000-2500 (mean dose 2077) mg (N = 246) 0.0% (0.00) 26-Week Add-On to Metformin Trial BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 160) 1.3% (0.03) Sitagliptin 100 mg (N = 166) 3.0% (0.12) Pioglitazone 45 mg (N = 165) 1.2% (0.03) 26-Week Add-On to Metformin or Metformin + Sulfonylurea Trial With Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 136) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 70) 20.0% (1.11) Titrated Insulin Glargine (N = 66) 43.9% (2.87) Without Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 320) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 163) 3.7% (0.11) Titrated Insulin Glargine\\342\\200\\241 (N = 157) 19.1% (0.64) 24-Week Monotherapy or Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial With Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 74) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 40) 12.5% (0.72) BYETTA 10 mcg (N = 34) 11.8% (0.31) Without Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 178) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 89) 0.0% (0.00) BYETTA 10 mcg (N = 89) 0.0% (0.00) 30-Week Monotherapy or Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial With Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 107) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 55) 14.5% (0.55) BYETTA 10 -mcg (N = 52) 15.4% (0.37) Without Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 186) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 93) 0.0% (0.00) BYETTA 10 mcg (N = 93) 1.1% (0.02) 26-Week as Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, Metformin + Sulfonylurea, or Metformin + Pioglitazone Trial With Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 590) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 294) 15.3% (0.76) Without Concomitant Sulfonylurea Use (N = 321) BYDUREON 2 mg (N = 167) 3.6% (0.67) There were no reported events of major hypoglycemia in these six comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials. Major hypoglycemia was defined as loss of consciousness, seizure, or coma (or other mental status change consistent with neuroglycopenia in the judgment of the investigator or physician) which resolved after administration of glucagon or glucose or required third-party assistance to resolve because of severe impairment in consciousness or behavior. Patients were to have a concomitant glucose <54 mg/dL. 6.2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is potential for immunogenicity. The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody (including neutralizing antibody) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to BYDUREON in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading. Anti-exenatide antibodies were measured at prespecified intervals (4-14 weeks) in all BYDUREON-treated patients (N=918) in the five comparator-controlled studies of BYDUREON. In these five trials, 452 BYDUREON-treated patients (49%) had low titer antibodies (<=125) to exenatide at any time during the trials and 405 BYDUREON-treated patients (45%) had low titer antibodies to exenatide at study endpoint (24-30 weeks). The level of glycemic control in these patients was generally comparable to that observed in the 379 BYDUREON-treated patients (43%) without antibody titers. An additional 107 BYDUREON-treated patients (12%) had higher titer antibodies at endpoint. Of these patients, 50 (6% overall) had an attenuated glycemic response to BYDUREON (<0.7% reduction in HbA1c); the remaining 57 (6% overall) had a glycemic response comparable to that of patients without antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In the 30-week trial in which anti-exenatide antibody assessments were performed at baseline and at 4-week intervals from week 6 to week 30, the mean anti-exenatide antibody titer in the BYDUREON-treated patients peaked at week 6 then declined by 56% from this peak by week 30. A total of 246 patients with antibodies to exenatide in the BYETTA and BYDUREON clinical trials were tested for the presence of cross-reactive antibodies to GLP-1 and/or glucagon. No treatment-emergent cross-reactive antibodies were observed across the range of titers. 6.3 Other Adverse Reactions BYDUREON Tables 2 and 3 summarize adverse reactions with an incidence >=5% reported in the six comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials of BYDUREON used as monotherapy or as add-on to metformin, a sulfonylurea, a thiazolidinedione, or combination of these oral antidiabetic agents (the findings in the BYDUREON are from a sixth comparator-controlled open label trial of BYDUREON are included in Table 3). Table 2: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported in >=5% of BYDUREON-Treated Patients in Monotherapy Trial 26-Week Monotherapy Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 248 % Sitagliptin 100 mg N = 163 % Pioglitazone 30-45 (mean dose 40) mg N = 163 % Metformin 1000-2500 (mean dose 2077) mg N = 246 % Nausea 11.3 3.7 4.3 6.9 Diarrhea 10.9 5.5 3.7 12.6 Injection-site nodule 10.5 6.7 3.7 10.2 Constipation 8.5 2.5 1.8 3.3 Headache 8.1 9.2 8.0 12.2 Dyspepsia 7.3 1.8 4.9 3.3 N = number of intent-to-treat patients. Note: Percentages are based on the number of intent-to-treat patients in each treatment group.  Patients in the sitagliptin, pioglitazone, and metformin treatment groups received weekly placebo injections. Table 3: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Reported in >=5% of BYDUREON-Treated Patients in 24- to 30-Week Add-On Combination Therapy Trials N = number of intent-to-treat patients. Note: Percentages are based on the number of intent-to-treat patients in each treatment group.  Patients in the sitagliptin, pioglitazone, and metformin treatment groups received weekly placebo injections. 26-Week Add-On to Metformin Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 160 % Sitagliptin 100 mg N = 166 % Pioglitazone 45 mg N = 165 % Nausea 24.4 9.6 4.8 Diarrhea 20.0 9.6 7.3 Vomiting 11.3 2.4 3.0 Headache 9.4 9.0 5.5 Constipation 6.3 3.6 1.2 Fatigue 5.6 0.6 3.0 Dyspepsia 5.0 3.6 2.4 Decreased appetite 5.0 1.2 0.0 Injection-site pruritus 5.0 4.8 1.2 26-Week Add-On to Metformin or Metformin + Sulfonylurea Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 233 % Insulin Glargine Titrated N = 223 % Nausea 12.9 1.3 Headache 9.9 7.6 Diarrhea 9.4 4.0 Injection-site nodule 6.0 0.0 30-Week Monotherapy or as Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 148 % BYETTA 10 mcg N = 145 % Nausea 27.0 33.8 Diarrhea 16.2 12.4 Vomiting 10.8 18.6 Injection-site pruritus 18.2 1.4 Constipation 10.1 6.2 Gastroenteritis viral 8.8 5.5 Gastroesophageal reflux disease 7.4 4.1 Dyspepsia 7.4 2.1 Injection-site erythema 7.4 0.0 Fatigue 6.1 3.4 Headache 6.1 4.8 Injection-site hematoma 5.4 11.0 24-Week Monotherapy or as Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, a Thiazolidinedione, or Combination of Oral Agents Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 129 % BYETTA 10 mcg N = 123 % Nausea 14.0 35.0 Diarrhea 9.3 4.1 Injection-site erythema 5.4 2.4 26-Week Add-On to Metformin, a Sulfonylurea, Metformin + Sulfonylurea, or Metformin + Pioglitazone Trial BYDUREON 2 mg N = 461 % Injection-site nodule 10.4 Nausea 9.3 Diarrhea 6.1 Nausea was the most common adverse reaction associated with initiation of treatment with BYDUREON, and usually decreased over time. Injection-Site Reactions In the five comparator-controlled 24- to 30-week trials, injection-site reactions were observed more frequently in patients treated with BYDUREON (17.1%) than in patients treated with BYETTA (12.7%), titrated insulin glargine (1.8%), or those patients who received placebo injections (sitagliptin (10.6%), pioglitazone (6.4%), and metformin (13.0%) treatment groups). These reactions for patients treated with BYDUREON were more commonly observed in antibody-positive patients (14.2%) compared with antibody-negative patients (3.1%), with a greater incidence in those with higher titer antibodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Incidence of injection-site reactions for patients treated with BYETTA was similar for antibody-positive patients (5.8%) and antibody-negative patients (7.0%). One percent of patients treated with BYDUREON withdrew due to injection-site adverse reactions (injection-site mass, injection-site nodule, injection-site pruritus, and injection-site reaction). Subcutaneous injection-site nodules may occur with the use of BYDUREON. In a separate 15-week study in which information on nodules were collected and analyzed, 24 out of 31 subjects (77%) experienced at least 1 injection-site nodule during treatment; 2 subjects (6.5%) reported accompanying localized symptoms. The mean duration of events was 27 days. The formation of nodules is consistent with the known properties of the microspheres used in BYDUREON. Changes in heart rate Increases in heart rate from baseline ranging from 1.5 to 4.5 beats per minute have been observed in comparator-controlled clinical trials. The long-term effects of the increase in heart rate have not been established. BYETTA In three 30-week controlled trials of BYETTA (N=963) add-on to metformin and/or sulfonylurea, adverse reactions (excluding hypoglycemia) with an incidence of >=1% and reported more frequently than with placebo included nausea (44% BYETTA, 18% placebo), vomiting (13% BYETTA, 4% placebo), diarrhea (13% BYETTA, 6% placebo), feeling jittery (9% BYETTA, 4% placebo), dizziness (9% BYETTA, 6% placebo), headache (9% BYETTA, 6% placebo), dyspepsia (6% BYETTA, 3% placebo), asthenia (4% BYETTA, 2% placebo), gastroesophageal reflux (3% BYETTA, 1% placebo), hyperhidrosis (3% BYETTA, 1% placebo), and decreased appetite (1% BYETTA, <1% placebo). Similar types of adverse reactions were observed in 24-week and 16-week controlled trials of BYETTA used as monotherapy or as add-on to a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin, respectively. 6.4 Postmarketing Experience BYDUREON Allergy/Hypersensitivity: injection-site reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. BYETTA The following additional adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of BYETTA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergy/Hypersensitivity: injection-site reactions, generalized pruritus and/or urticaria, macular or papular rash, angioedema; anaphylactic reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Drug Interactions: increased international normalized ratio (INR), sometimes associated with bleeding, with concomitant warfarin use [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea resulting in dehydration; abdominal distension, abdominal pain, eructation, constipation, flatulence, acute pancreatitis, hemorrhagic and necrotizing pancreatitis sometimes resulting in death [see Indications and Usage (1.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Neurologic: dysgeusia; somnolence Renal and Urinary Disorders: altered renal function, including increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure or acute renal failure (sometimes requiring hemodialysis), kidney transplant and kidney transplant dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -May impact absorption of orally administered medications (7.1, 12.3). -Warfarin: Postmarketing reports of increased INR sometimes associated with bleeding. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of BYETTA therapy (6.2, 7.2). 7.1 Orally Administered Drugs The effect of BYETTA to slow gastric emptying can reduce the extent and rate of absorption of orally administered drugs. BYETTA should be used with caution in patients receiving oral medications that have narrow therapeutic index or require rapid gastrointestinal absorption [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. For oral medications that are dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy, such as contraceptives and antibiotics, patients should be advised to take those drugs at least 1 hour before BYETTA injection. If such drugs are to be administered with food, patients should be advised to take them with a meal or snack when BYETTA is not administered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Warfarin There are postmarketing reports of increased INR sometimes associated with bleeding, with concomitant use of warfarin and BYETTA [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. In a drug interaction study, BYETTA did not have a significant effect on INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In patients taking warfarin, prothrombin time should be monitored more frequently after initiation or alteration of BYETTA therapy. Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, prothrombin times can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on warfarin.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS May impact absorption of orally administered medications (7.1, 12.3) Warfarin: Postmarketing reports of increased INR sometimes associated with bleeding. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of BYETTA therapy (6.2, 7.2). 7.1 Orally Administered Drugs The effect of BYETTA to slow gastric emptying can reduce the extent and rate of absorption of orally administered drugs. BYETTA should be used with caution in patients receiving oral medications that have narrow therapeutic index or require rapid gastrointestinal absorption [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. For oral medications that are dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy, such as contraceptives and antibiotics, patients should be advised to take those drugs at least 1 hour before BYETTA injection. If such drugs are to be administered with food, patients should be advised to take them with a meal or snack when BYETTA is not administered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Warfarin There are postmarketing reports of increased INR sometimes associated with bleeding, with concomitant use of warfarin and BYETTA [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. In a drug interaction study, BYETTA did not have a significant effect on INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In patients taking warfarin, prothrombin time should be monitored more frequently after initiation or alteration of BYETTA therapy. Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, prothrombin times can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on warfarin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -May impact absorption of orally administered medications (7.1, 12.3). -Warfarin: Postmarketing reports with exenatide of increased INR sometimes associated with bleeding. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation of BYDUREON therapy (6.2, 7.2). 7.1 Orally Administered Drugs Exenatide slows gastric emptying. Therefore, BYDUREON has the potential to reduce the rate of absorption of orally administered drugs. Use caution when administering oral medications with BYDUREON [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In patients with type 2 diabetes, BYDUREON did not affect the absorption of orally administered acetaminophen to any clinically relevant degree. 7.2 Warfarin BYDUREON has not been studied with warfarin. However, in a drug interaction study, BYETTA did not have a significant effect on INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There have been postmarketing reports for BYETTA of increased INR with concomitant use of warfarin, sometimes associated with bleeding [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. In patients taking warfarin, the INR should be monitored more frequently after initiating BYDUREON. Once a stable INR has been documented, the INR can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on warfarin.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -May impact absorption of orally administered medications (7.1, 12.3). -Warfarin: Postmarketing reports with exenatide of increased INR sometimes associated with bleeding. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation of BYDUREON therapy (6.2, 7.2). 7.1 Orally Administered Drugs Exenatide slows gastric emptying. Therefore, BYDUREON has the potential to reduce the rate of absorption of orally administered drugs. Use caution when administering oral medications with BYDUREON [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In patients with type 2 diabetes, BYDUREON did not affect the absorption of orally administered acetaminophen to any clinically relevant degree. 7.2 Warfarin BYDUREON has not been studied with warfarin. However, in a drug interaction study, BYETTA did not have a significant effect on INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There have been postmarketing reports for BYETTA of increased INR with concomitant use of warfarin, sometimes associated with bleeding [see Adverse Reactions (6.4) ]. In patients taking warfarin, the INR should be monitored more frequently after initiating BYDUREON. Once a stable INR has been documented, the INR can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on warfarin.",$$
