
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Cataract formation: Nearly all phakic patients are expected to develop cataracts and require cataract surgery. (5.1) -Endophthalmitis: Late onset endophthalmitis has been observed. (5.2) -Increase in intraocular pressure: Use of corticosteroids may result in elevated IOP and/or glaucoma. (5.3) IOP lowering medications were required in > 75% of patients; filtering surgeries were required in > 35% of patients. (6.1) -Separation of implant components: Physicians should periodically monitor the integrity of the implant by visual inspection. (5.4) 5.1 Cataract Formation Use of corticosteroids may result in posterior subcapsular cataract formation. Based on clinical trials with RETISERT, during the 3-year post implantation period, nearly all phakic eyes are expected to develop cataracts and require cataract surgery. 5.2 Endophthalmitis and Surgical Complications Late onset endophthalmitis has been observed. These events are often related to the integrity of the surgical wound site. Careful attention to assure tight closure of the scleral wound and the integrity of the overlying conjunctiva at the wound site is important. Potential complications accompanying intraocular surgery to place RETISERT into the vitreous cavity may include, but are not limited to, the following: cataract formation, choroidal detachment, endophthalmitis, hypotony, increased intraocular pressure, exacerbation of intraocular inflammation, retinal detachment, vitreous hemorrhage, vitreous loss, and wound dehiscence. Following implantation of RETISERT, nearly all patients will experience an immediate and temporary decrease in visual acuity in the implanted eye which lasts for approximately one to four weeks post-operatively. 5.3 Increase in Intraocular Pressure Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in elevated IOP and/or glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve, defects in visual acuity and fields of vision. Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma. Patients must be monitored for elevated IOP. Based on clinical trials with RETISERT, within 3-years post implantation, approximately 77% of patients will require IOP lowering medications to control intraocular pressure and 37% of patients will require filtering procedures to control intraocular pressure. (see 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience - Ocular Events section). 5.4 Separation of Implant Components In vitro stability studies show that the strength of the adhesive bond between the silicone cup reservoir and the suture tab is reduced with prolonged hydration, indicating a potential for the separation of these components. The suture tab composition is a silicone elastomer reinforced with a polyester mesh. Physicians should periodically monitor the integrity of the implant by visual inspection. 5.5 Other Corticosteroid Induced Adverse Reactions RETISERT should be used with caution in patients with a history of a viral, bacterial, mycobacterial or fungal infection of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis), vaccinia and varicella. Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye (including herpes simplex). Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution. Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections (bacterial, fungal, and viral). In acute purulent conditions of the eye, steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term application of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion should be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Since resistance to infections is known to be reduced by corticosteroids, simultaneous bilateral implantation should not be carried out, in order to limit the potential for bilateral post-operative infection. Ocular administration of corticosteroids has also been associated with delayed wound healing and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the sclera. The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypersensitivity: Discontinue use at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. ( 5.1 ) Potential for Microbial Overgrowth: Prolonged use may result in the overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. ( 5.2 ) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions OTOVEL should be discontinued at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, angioedema (including laryngeal, pharyngeal or facial edema), airway obstruction, dyspnea, urticaria and itching. Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require immediate emergency treatment. 5.2 Potential for Microbial Overgrowth with Prolonged Use Prolonged use of OTOVEL may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible bacteria and fungi. If the infection is not improved after one week of treatment, cultures should be obtained to guide further treatment. If such infections occur, discontinue use and institute alternative therapy. 5.3 Continued or Recurrent Otorrhea If otorrhea persists after a full course of therapy, or if two or more episodes of otorrhea occur within 6 months, further evaluation is recommended to exclude an underlying condition such as cholesteatoma, foreign body, or a tumor."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Intravitreal injections have been associated with endophthalmitis, eye inflammation, increased intraocular pressure, and retinal detachments. Patients should be monitored following the injection. (5.1) Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. (5.2) The implant may migrate into the anterior chamber if the posterior lens capsule is not intact. (5.3) 5.1 Intravitreal Injection-related Effects Intravitreal injections, including those with ILUVIEN, have been associated with endophthalmitis, eye inflammation, increased intraocular pressure, and retinal detachments. Patients should be monitored following the intravitreal injection [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.2 Steroid-related Effects Use of corticosteroids including ILUVIEN may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, increased intraocular pressure and glaucoma. Use of corticosteroids may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. Corticosteroids are not recommended to be used in patients with a history of ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for reactivation of the viral infection. 5.3 Risk of Implant Migration Patients in whom the posterior capsule of the lens is absent or has a tear are at risk of implant migration into the anterior chamber."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. (5.1) Systemic absorption may require evaluation for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. (5.1) Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1) Potent corticosteroids use on large areas, prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption. (5.1) Local adverse reactions may include atrophy, striae, irritation, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids (5.2,5.3,6.1) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses. (5.1,8.4) 5.1 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Suppression Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. Because of the potential for systemic absorption, use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. The ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. If HPA axis suppression is documented, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. Conditions which increase systemic absorption include the use of more potent corticosteroids, use over large surface areas, use over prolonged periods, and use of occlusive dressings. Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] 5.2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may occur with use of topical corticosteroids and may be more likely to occur with occlusive use, prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids. Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible. Reactions may include atrophy, striae, telangiectasias, burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, and miliaria. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1)] 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing. 5.4 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent. If the infection persists unchanged, Derma-Smoothe/FS(R) should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated. 5.5 Use in Peanut-Sensitive Individuals Physicians should use caution in prescribing Derma-Smoothe/FS(R) for peanut-sensitive individuals. [See Description (11)] Should signs of hypersensitivity present (wheal and flare reactions, pruritus, or other manifestations), or should disease exacerbations occur, Derma-Smoothe/FS(R) should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. (5.1) Systemic absorption may require evaluation for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. (5.1) Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1) Potent corticosteroids, use on large areas, prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption. (5.1) Local adverse reactions may include atrophy, striae, irritation, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids (5.2,5.3,6.1) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses. (5.1,8.4) 5.1 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Suppression Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. Because of the potential for systemic absorption, use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. The ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. If HPA axis suppression is documented, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. Conditions which increase systemic absorption include the use of more potent corticosteroids, use over large surface areas, use over prolonged periods, and use of occlusive dressings. Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] 5.2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may occur with use of topical corticosteroids and may be more likely to occur with occlusive use, prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids. Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible. Reactions may include atrophy, striae, telangiectasias, burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, and miliaria. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1)] 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing. 5.4 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent. If the infection persists unchanged, Fluocinolone Acetonide 0.01% Topical Oil should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated. 5.5 Use in Peanut-Sensitive Individuals Physicians should use caution in prescribing Fluocinolone Acetonide 0.01% Topical Oil for peanut-sensitive individuals. [See Description (11)] Should signs of hypersensitivity present (wheal and flare reactions, pruritus, or other manifestations), or should disease exacerbations occur, Fluocinolone Acetonide 0.01% Topical Oil should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. (5.1) Systemic absorption may require evaluation for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. (5.1) Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1) Potent corticosteroids, use on large areas, prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption. (5.1) Local adverse reactions may include atrophy, striae irritation, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids (5.2, 5.3, 6.1) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses. (5.1, 8.4) 5.1. Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Suppression Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. Because of the potential for systemic absorption, use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. The ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. If HPA axis suppression is documented, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. Conditions which increase systemic absorption include the use of more potent corticosteroids, use over large surface areas, use over prolonged periods, and use of occlusive dressings. Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] 5.2. Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may occur with use of topical corticosteroids and may be more likely to occur with occlusive use, prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids. Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible. Reactions may include atrophy, striae, telangiectasias, burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, and miliaria. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] 5.3. Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing. 5.4. Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent. If the infection persists unchanged, fluocinolone acetonide topical oil 0.01% should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated. 5.5. Use in Peanut-Sensitive Individuals Physicians should use caution in prescribing fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil for peanut-sensitive individuals. [See Description (11) ] Should signs of hypersensitivity present (wheal and flare reactions, pruritus, or other manifestations), or should disease exacerbations occur, fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glycosuria. (5.1) Systemic absorption may require evaluation for hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. (5.1) Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop. (5.1) Potent corticosteroids, use on large areas, prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption. (5.1) Local adverse reactions may include atrophy, striae irritation, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids (5.2, 5.3, 6.1) Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses. (5.1, 8.4) 5.1 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Suppression Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids. Because of the potential for systemic absorption, use of topical corticosteroids may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression. The ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. If HPA axis suppression is documented, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. Conditions which increase systemic absorption include the use of more potent corticosteroids, use over large surface areas, use over prolonged periods, and use of occlusive dressings. Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] 5.2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may occur with use of topical corticosteroids and may be more likely to occur with occlusive use, prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids. Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible. Reactions may include atrophy, striae, telangiectasias, burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, and miliaria. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis with Topical Corticosteroids Allergic contact dermatitis to any component of topical corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by a failure to heal rather than a clinical exacerbation. Clinical diagnosis of allergic contact dermatitis can be confirmed by patch testing. 5.4 Concomitant Skin Infections Concomitant skin infections should be treated with an appropriate antimicrobial agent. If the infection persists unchanged, fluocinolone acetonide topical oil 0.01% should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately treated. 5.5 Use in Peanut-Sensitive Individuals Physicians should use caution in prescribing fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil for peanut-sensitive individuals. [See Description (11) ] Should signs of hypersensitivity present (wheal and flare reactions, pruritus, or other manifestations), or should disease exacerbations occur, fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy instituted."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS TRI-LUMA Cream contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening asthmatic episodes in susceptible people. If anaphylaxis, asthma or other clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction occurs, institute appropriate therapy and discontinue TRI-LUMA. (5.1) TRI-LUMA Cream contains hydroquinone, which may produce exogenous ochronosis, a gradual blue-black darkening of the skin, the occurrence of which should prompt discontinuation of therapy. (5.2) 5.1 Hypersensitivity TRI-LUMA Cream contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening asthmatic episodes in susceptible individuals. If anaphylaxis, asthma or other clinically significant hypersensitivity reactions occur, institute appropriate therapy and discontinue TRI-LUMA. Allergic contact dermatitis may also occur [see Warnings and Precautions 5.4]. 5.2 Exogenous Ochronosis TRI-LUMA Cream contains hydroquinone, which may produce exogenous ochronosis, a gradual blue-black darkening of the skin, the occurrence of which should prompt discontinuation of therapy. The majority of patients developing this condition are Black, but it may also occur in Caucasians and Hispanics. 5.3 Effects on Endocrine System TRI-LUMA Cream contains the corticosteroid fluocinolone acetonide. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroid while on treatment. If HPA axis suppression is noted, the use of TRI-LUMA Cream should be discontinued. Recovery of HPA axis function generally occurs upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids. The ACTH or cosyntropin stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression. 5.4 Cutaneous Reactions Cutaneous hypersensitivity to the active ingredients of TRI-LUMA Cream has been reported in the literature. In a patch test study to determine sensitization potential in 221 healthy volunteers, three volunteers developed sensitivity reactions to TRI-LUMA Cream or its components. TRI-LUMA Cream contains hydroquinone and tretinoin that may cause mild to moderate irritation. Local irritation, such as skin reddening, peeling, mild burning sensation, dryness, and pruritus may be expected at the site of application. Transient skin reddening or mild burning sensation does not preclude treatment. If a reaction suggests hypersensitivity or chemical irritation, the use of the medication should be discontinued. Patients should avoid medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers, soaps and cosmetics with drying effects, products with high concentrations of alcohol and astringents, and other irritants or keratolytic drugs while on TRI-LUMA Cream treatment. Patients are cautioned on concomitant use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In the controlled clinical trials, adverse events were monitored in the 161 subjects who used TRI-LUMA Cream once daily during an 8-week treatment period. There were 102 (63%) subjects who experienced at least one treatment-related adverse event during these trials. The most frequently reported events were erythema, desquamation, burning, dryness, and pruritus at the site of application. The majority of these events were mild to moderate in severity. Adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients and judged by the investigators to be reasonably related to treatment with TRI-LUMA Cream from the controlled clinical trials are summarized (in decreasing order of frequency) as follows: In an open-label trial, subjects who had cumulative treatment of melasma with TRI-LUMA Cream for 6 months showed a similar pattern of adverse events as in the 8-week studies. The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. Most common adverse reactions (incidence > 5%) are erythema, desquamation, burning, dryness, pruritus, and acne. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Galderma Laboratories, L.P. at 1-866-735-4137 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. table-1"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reactions (>= 5%) were cough (20%), rhinorrhea (13%), pyrexia (10%), telangiectasia (7%), nasopharyngitis (7%), and hypopigmentation (7%). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-877-835-5472 and www.fda.gov/medwatch or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1. Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation of Facial Use in Pediatric Subjects An, open-label, study was conducted in 58 children with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (2 to 12 years old) to evaluate the safety of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil when applied to the face twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported: Incidence of Adverse Reaction (%)N=58 *The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction. **End of Treatment ***Four Weeks Post Treatment Adverse Reaction (AR) * # of subjects (%) Day 14 Day 28 ** Day 56 *** Any AE 15 (26) 6 (10) 7 (12) 7 (12) Telangiectasia 5 (9) 3 (5) 4 (7) 2 (4) Erythema 3 (5) 3 (5) Itching 3 (5) 3 (5) Irritation 3 (5) 3 (5) Burning 3 (5) 3 (5) Hypopigmentation 2 (4) 2 (4) Shiny Skin 1 (2) 1 (2) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Papules and pustules 1 (2) 1 (2) Keratosis pilaris 1 (2) 1 (2) Follicuitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Facial herpes simplex 1 (2) 1 (2) Acneiform eruption 1 (2) 1 (2) Ear infection 1 (2) 1 (2) 6.2. Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 3 months to 2 years old An open-label safety study was conducted in 29 children to assess the HPA axis by ACTH stimulation testing following use of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported in the study [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]: Adverse Reactions (%) N=30* *Includes one subject who withdrew at Week 2 Adverse Reactions # of subjects (%) Diarrhea 1 (3) Vomiting 1 (3) Pyrexia 3 (10) Abscess 1 (3) Molluscum 1 (3) Nasopharyngitis 2 (7) URI 1 (3) Otitis media 1 (3) Cough 6 (20) Rhinorrhea 4 (13) Atopic dermatitis 1 (3) Eczema 1 (3) Hyperpigmentation 1 (3) Hypopigmentation 2 (7) Rash 1 (3)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reactions (>= 5%) were cough (20%), rhinorrhea (13%), pyrexia (10%), telangiectasia (7%), nasopharyngitis (7%), and hypopigmentation (7%). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact at or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation of Facial Use in Pediatric Subjects An, open-label, study was conducted in 58 children with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (2 to 12 years old) to evaluate the safety of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil when applied to the face twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported: Incidence of Adverse Reaction (%) N=58 Adverse Reaction (AR)* # of subjects (%) Day 14 Day 28** Day 56*** Any AE 15 (26) 6 (10) 7 (12) 7 (12) Telangiectasia 5 (9) 3 (5) 4 (7) 2 (4) Erythema 3 (5) 3 (5) Itching 3 (5) 3 (5) Irritation 3 (5) 3 (5) Burning 3 (5) 3 (5) Hypopigmentation 2 (4) 2 (4) Shiny Skin 1 (2) 1 (2) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Papules and pustules 1 (2) 1 (2) Keratosis pilaris 1 (2) 1 (2) Folliculitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Facial herpes simplex 1 (2) 1 (2) Acneiform eruption 1 (2) 1 (2) Ear infection 1 (2) 1 (2) *The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction. **End of Treatment ***Four Weeks Post Treatment 6.2 Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 3 months to 2 years old An open-label safety study was conducted in 29 children to assess the HPA axis by ACTH stimulation testing following use of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported in the study [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]: Adverse Reactions (%) N=3* Adverse Reactions # of subjects (%) Diarrhea 1 (3) Vomiting 1 (3) Pyrexia 3 (10) Abscess 1 (3) Molluscum 1 (3) Nasopharyngitis 2 (7) URI 1 (3) Otitis media 1 (3) Cough 6 (20) Rhinorrhea 4 (13) Atopic dermatitis 1 (3) Eczema 1 (3) Hyperpigmentation 1 (3) Hypopigmentation 2 (7) Rash 1 (3) *Includes one subject who withdrew at Week 2"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reactions (>= 5%) were cough (20%), rhinorrhea (13%), pyrexia (10%), telangiectasia (7%), nasopharyngitis (7%), and hypopigmentation (7%). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993 and www.fda.gov/medwatch or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1. Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation of Facial Use in Pediatric Subjects An, open-label, study was conducted in 58 children with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (2 to 12 years old) to evaluate the safety of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil when applied to the face twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported: Incidence of Adverse Reaction (%)N=58 *The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction. **End of Treatment ***Four Weeks Post Treatment Adverse Reaction (AR) * # of subjects (%) Day 14 Day 28 ** Day 56 *** Any AE 15 (26) 6 (10) 7 (12) 7 (12) Telangiectasia 5 (9) 3 (5) 4 (7) 2 (4) Erythema 3 (5) 3 (5) Itching 3 (5) 3 (5) Irritation 3 (5) 3 (5) Burning 3 (5) 3 (5) Hypopigmentation 2 (4) 2 (4) Shiny Skin 1 (2) 1 (2) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Papules and pustules 1 (2) 1 (2) Keratosis pilaris 1 (2) 1 (2) Follicuitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Facial herpes simplex 1 (2) 1 (2) Acneiform eruption 1 (2) 1 (2) Ear infection 1 (2) 1 (2) 6.2. Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 3 months to 2 years old An open-label safety study was conducted in 29 children to assess the HPA axis by ACTH stimulation testing following use of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported in the study [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]: Adverse Reactions (%) N=30* *Includes one subject who withdrew at Week 2 Adverse Reactions # of subjects (%) Diarrhea 1 (3) Vomiting 1 (3) Pyrexia 3 (10) Abscess 1 (3) Molluscum 1 (3) Nasopharyngitis 2 (7) URI 1 (3) Otitis media 1 (3) Cough 6 (20) Rhinorrhea 4 (13) Atopic dermatitis 1 (3) Eczema 1 (3) Hyperpigmentation 1 (3) Hypopigmentation 2 (7) Rash 1 (3)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reactions (>= 5%) were cough (20%), rhinorrhea (13%), pyrexia (10% ), telangiectasia (7%), nasopharyngitis (7%), and hypopigmentation (7%). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hill Dermaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-344-5707 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation of Facial Use in Pediatric Subjects An open-label study was conducted in 58 children with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (2 to 12 years old) to evaluate the safety of Derma-Smoothe/FS(R) when applied to the face twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported: Incidence of Adverse Reactions (%), N=58 Adverse Reaction (AR)The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction. # of subjects (%) Day 14 Day 28End of Treatment Day 56Four Weeks Post Treatment Any AE 15 (26) 6 (10) 7 (12) 7 (12) Telangiectasia 5 (9) 3 (5) 4 (7) 2 (4) Erythema 3 (5) 3 (5) Itching 3 (5) 3 (5) Irritation 3 (5) 3 (5) Burning 3 (5) 3 (5) Hypopigmentation 2 (4) 2 (4) Shiny skin 1 (2) 1 (2) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Papules and pustules 1 (2) 1 (2) Keratosis pilaris 1 (2) 1 (2) Folliculitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Facial herpes simplex 1 (2) 1 (2) Acneiform eruption 1 (2) 1 (2) Ear infection 1 (2) 1 (2) 6.2 Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 3 months to 2 years old An open-label safety study was conducted in 29 children to assess the HPA axis by ACTH stimulation testing following use of Derma-Smoothe/FS(R) twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported in the study [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]; Adverse Reactions (%), N=30Includes one subject who withdrew at Week 2 Adverse Reaction # of subjects (%) Diarrhea 1 (3) Vomiting 1 (3) Pyrexia 3 (10) Abscess 1 (3) Molluscum 1 (3) Nasopharyngitis 2 (7) URI 1 (3) Otitis media 1 (3) Cough 6 (20) Rhinorrhea 4 (13) Atopic dermatitis 1 (3) Eczema 1 (3) Hyperpigmentation 1 (3) Hypopigmentation 2 (7) Rash 1 (3)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reactions (>=5%) were cough (20%), rhinorrhea (13%), pyrexia (10% ), telangiectasia (7%), nasopharyngitis (7%), and hypopigmentation (7%). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Seton Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-510-3401 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation of Facial Use in Pediatric Subjects An open-label study was conducted in 58 children with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (2 to 12 years old) to evaluate the safety of Fluocinolone Acetonide 0.01% Topical Oil when applied to the face twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported: Incidence of Adverse Reactions (%), N=58 Adverse Reaction (AR) The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction. # of subjects (%) Day 14 Day 28 End of Treatment Day 56 Four Weeks Post Treatment Any AE 15 (26) 6 (10) 7 (12) 7 (12) Telangiectasia 5 (9) 3 (5) 4 (7) 2 (4) Erythema 3 (5) 3 (5) Itching 3 (5) 3 (5) Irritation 3 (5) 3 (5) Burning 3 (5) 3 (5) Hypopigmentation 2 (4) 2 (4) Shiny skin 1 (2) 1 (2) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Papules and pustules 1 (2) 1 (2) Keratosis pilaris 1 (2) 1 (2) Folliculitis 1 (2) 1 (2) Facial herpes simplex 1 (2) 1 (2) Acneiform eruption 1 (2) 1 (2) Ear infection 1 (2) 1 (2) 6.2 Clinical Studies Experience: Evaluation in Pediatric Subjects 3 months to 2 years old An open-label safety study was conducted in 29 children to assess the HPA axis by ACTH stimulation testing following use of Fluocinolone Acetonide 0.01% Topical Oil twice daily for 4 weeks. The following adverse reactions were reported in the study [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]: Adverse Reactions (%), N=30Includes one subject who withdrew at Week 2 Adverse Reaction # of subjects (%) Diarrhea 1 (3) Vomiting 1 (3) Pyrexia 3 (10) Abscess 1 (3) Molluscum 1 (3) Nasopharyngitis 2 (7) URI 1 (3) Otitis media 1 (3) Cough 6 (20) Rhinorrhea 4 (13) Atopic dermatitis 1 (3) Eczema 1 (3) Hyperpigmentation 1 (3) Hypopigmentation 2 (7) Rash 1 (3)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled studies, the most common adverse reactions reported were cataract development and increases in intraocular pressure. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Alimera Sciences, Inc. at 1-844-445-8843 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adverse reactions associated with ophthalmic steroids including ILUVIEN include cataract formation and subsequent cataract surgery, elevated intraocular pressure, which may be associated with optic nerve damage, visual acuity and field defects, secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex, and perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera. ILUVIEN was studied in two multicenter, randomized, sham-controlled, masked trials in which patients with diabetic macular edema were treated with either ILUVIEN (n=375) or sham (n=185). Table 1 summarizes safety data available when the last subject completed the last 36 month follow up visit for the two primary ILUVIEN trials. In these trials, subjects were eligible for retreatment no earlier than 12 months after study entry. Over the three year follow up period, approximately 75% of the ILUVIEN treated subjects received only one ILUVIEN implant. The most common ocular (study eye) and non-ocular adverse reactions are shown in Tables 1 and 2: Table 1: Ocular Adverse Reactions Reported by >=1% of Patients and Non-ocular Adverse Reactions Reported by >=5% of Patients 1 Includes cataract, cataract nuclear, cataract subcapsular, cataract cortical and cataract diabetic in patients who were phakic at baseline. Among these patients, 80% of ILUVIEN subjects vs. 27% of sham-controlled subjects underwent cataract surgery. 2 235 of the 375 ILUVIEN subjects were phakic at baseline; 121 of 185 sham-controlled subjects were phakic at baseline. Adverse Reactions ILUVIEN (N=375) n (%) Sham (N=185) n (%) Ocular Cataract1 192/2352 (82%) 61/1212 (50%) Myodesopsia 80 (21%) 17 (9%) Eye pain 57 (15%) 25 (14%) Conjunctival hemorrhage 50 (13%) 21 (11%) Posterior capsule opacification 35 (9%) 6 (3%) Eye irritation 30 (8%) 11 (6%) Vitreous detachment 26 (7%) 12 (7%) Conjunctivitis 14 (4%) 5 (3%) Corneal oedema 13 (4%) 3 (2%) Foreign body sensation in eyes 12 (3%) 4 (2%) Eye pruritus 10 (3%) 3 (2%) Ocular hyperaemia 10 (3%) 3 (2%) Optic atrophy 9 (2%) 2 (1%) Ocular discomfort 8 (2%) 1 (1%) Photophobia 7 (2%) 2 (1%) Retinal exudates 7 (2%) 0 (0%) Anterior chamber cell 6 (2%) 1 (1%) Eye discharge 6 (2%) 1 (1%) Non-ocular Anemia 40 (11%) 10 (5%) Headache 33 (9%) 11 (6%) Renal Failure 32 (9%) 10 (5%) Pneumonia 28 (7%) 8 (4%) Increased intraocular Pressure Table 2: Summary of Elevated IOP Related Adverse Reactions Event ILUVIEN (N=375) n (%) Sham (N=185) n (%) IOP elevation >= 10 mmHg from Baseline 127 (34%) 18 (10%) IOP elevation >= 30 mmHg 75 (20%) 8 (4%) Any IOP-lowering medication 144 (38%) 26 (14%) Any surgical intervention for elevated intraocular pressure 18 (5%) 1 (1%) Figure 1: Mean IOP during the study Cataracts and Cataract Surgery At baseline, 235 of the 375 ILUVIEN subjects were phakic; 121 of 185 sham-controlled subjects were phakic. The incidence of cataract development in patients who had a phakic study eye was higher in the ILUVIEN group (82%) compared with Sham (50%). The median time of cataract being reported as an adverse event was approximately 12 months in the ILUVIEN group and 19 months in the Sham group. Among these patients, 80% of ILUVIEN subjects vs. 27% of sham-controlled subjects underwent cataract surgery, generally within the first 18 months (Median Month 15 for both ILUVIEN group and for Sham) of the studies. iluvien-figure-1 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following reactions have been identified during post-marketing use of ILUVIEN in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily estimates of frequency cannot be made. The reactions, which have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, possible causal connection to ILUVIEN, or a combination of these factors, include reports of drug administration error and reports of the drug being ineffective."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS -Ocular adverse events included procedural complications, and eye pain (> 50%). Thirty-five to forty percent of patients reported ocular/conjunctival hyperemia, reduced visual acuity, and conjunctival hemorrhage. (6.1) -The most common non-ocular event reported was headache (> 33%). (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bausch & Lomb at 1-800-323-0000 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience - Ocular Events The available safety data includes exposure to RETISERT in patients with chronic non-infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment in two multicenter controlled clinical trials. Patients were randomized to dosage regimens of 0.59 mg or 2.1 mg implants. The most frequently reported ocular adverse events were cataract, increased intraocular pressure, procedural complication, and eye pain. These events occurred in approximately 50 - 90% of patients. Cataract includes aggravated cataract, and posterior capsular opacification. Procedural complications includes post-op complication, post-op wound complication, post-op wound site erythema, and wound dehiscense. Based on clinical trials with RETISERT, during the 3-year post-implantation period, nearly all phakic eyes are expected to develop cataracts and require cataract surgery. IOP lowering medications to lower intraocular pressure were required in approximately 77% of patients; filtering surgeries were required to control intraocular pressure in 37% of patients. Ocular adverse events occurring in approximately 10 - 40% of patients in decreasing order of incidence were ocular/conjunctival hyperemia, reduced visual acuity, glaucoma, conjunctival hemorrhage, blurred vision, abnormal sensation in the eye, eye irritation, maculopathy, vitreous floaters, hypotony, pruritus, ptosis, increased tearing, vitreous hemorrhage, dry eye, eyelid edema, macula edema and visual disturbance. Ocular adverse events occurring in approximately 5 - 9% of patients in decreasing order of incidence were eye discharge, photophobia, blepharitis, corneal edema, iris adhesions, choroidal detachment, diplopia, eye swelling, retinal detachment, photopsia, retinal hemorrhage and hyphema. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience - Non-Ocular Events The most frequently reported non-ocular adverse event was headache (33%). Other non-ocular adverse events occurring in approximately 5-20% of patients in decreasing order of incidence were nasopharyngitis, arthralgia, sinusitis, dizziness, pyrexia, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, vomiting, nausea, cough, back pain, limb pain, and rash."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] The most common adverse reactions that occurred in >=1 patient were otorrhea, excessive granulation tissue, ear infection, ear pruritus, tympanic membrane disorder, auricular swelling and balance disorder (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Arbor Pharmaceuticals at 1-866-516-4950 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In clinical trials, 224 patients with AOMT were treated with OTOVEL for a median duration of 7 days. All the patients received at least one dose of OTOVEL. There were 220 patients who received at least one dose of ciprofloxacin (CIPRO) and 213 patients received at least one dose of fluocinolone acetonide (FLUO). The most common adverse reactions that occurred in 1 or more patients are as follows: Table 1: Selected Adverse Reactions that Occurred in 1 or more Patients in the OTOVEL Group Adverse Reactions1 Number (%) of Patients OTOVEL N=224 CIPRO N=220 FLUO N=213 Otorrhea 12 (5.4%) 9 (4.1%) 12 (5.6%) Excessive granulation tissue 3 (1.3%) 0 (0.0%) 2 (0.9%) Ear infection 2 (0.9%) 3 (1.4%) 1 (0.5%) Ear pruritus 2 (0.9%) 1 (0.5%) 1 (0.5%) Tympanic membrane disorder 2 (0.9%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) Auricular swelling 1 (0.4%) 1 (0.5%) 0 (0.0%) Balance disorder 1 (0.4%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) 1Selected adverse reactions that occurred in >= 1 patient in the OTOVEL group derived from all reported adverse events that could be related to the study drug or the drug class. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ciprofloxacin and fluocinolone acetonide otic solution, 0.3% / 0.025% outside the US. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Immune system disorders: allergic reaction. Infections and infestations: candidiasis. Nervous system disorders: dysgeusia, paresthesia (tingling in ears), dizziness, headache. Ear and labyrinth disorders: ear discomfort, hypoacusis, tinnitus, ear congestion. Vascular disorders: flushing. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: skin exfoliation. Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: device occlusion (tympanostomy tube obstruction)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning, Itching, Irritation, Dryness, Folliculitis, Hypertrichosis, Acneiform eruptions, Hypopigmentation, Perioral dermatitis, Allergic contact dermatitis, Maceration of the skin, Secondary infection, Skin atrophy, Striae and Miliaria. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact G&W Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-922-1038 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Itching Irritation Dryness Folliculitis Hypertrichosis Acneiform eruptions Hypopigmentation Perioral dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis Maceration of the skin Secondary infection Skin atrophy Striae Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning, Itching, Irritation, Dryness, Folliculitis, Hypertrichosis, Acneiform eruptions, Hypopigmentation, Perioral dermatitis, Allergic contact dermatitis, Maceration of the skin, Secondary infection, Skin atrophy, Striae, Miliaria. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact G&W Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-922-1038 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Perioral dermatitis Itching Allergic contact dermatitis Irritation Maceration of the skin Dryness Secondary infection Folliculitis Skin atrophy Hypertrichosis Striae Acneiform eruptions Miliaria Hypopigmentation"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria The following adverse reactions have been reported with the topical use of neomycin: Ototoxicity Nephrotoxicity"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and malaria. One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with fluocinolone acetonide oil 0.01%. A post marketing (open-label) safety study was conducted in 58 children to evaluate the local safety of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% topical oil when applied twice daily for 4 weeks to the face in children (2 to 12 years) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (see Table of Incidence of Adverse Events). Incidence of Adverse Events (%) N=58 Adverse Event (AE)* # of patients (%) Day 14 Day 28** Day 56*** Any AE 15 (25.9) 6 (10.3) 7 (12.1) 7 (12.1) Telangiectasia 5 (8.6) 3 (5.2) 4 (6.9) 2 (3.5) Erythema 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Itching 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Irritation 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Burning 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Hypopigmentation 2 (3.5) 2 (3.5) Shiny skin 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Papules and pustules 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Keratosis pilaris 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Folliculitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Facial herpes simplex 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Acneiform eruption 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Ear infection 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) *The number of individual adverse events reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse event. **End of Treatment ***Four Weeks Post Treatment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and malaria. One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with fluocinolone acetonide oil 0.01%. A post marketing (open-label) safety study was conducted in 58 children to evaluate the local safety of fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% tropical oil when applied twice daily for 4 weeks to the face in children (2 to 12 years) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (see Table of Incidence of Adverse Events). Incidence of Adverse Events (%)N=58 * The number of individual adverse events reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse event. ** End of Treatment *** Four Weeks Post Treatment Adverse Event (AE)* # of patients (%) Day 14 Day 28** Day 56*** Any AE 15 (25.9) 6 (10.3) 7 (12.1) 7 (12.1) Telangiectasia 5 (8.6) 3 (5.2) 4 (6.9) 2 (3.5) Erythema 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Itching 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Irritation 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Burning 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Hypopigmentation 2 (3.5) 2 (3.5) Shiny skin 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Papules and pustules 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Keratosis pilaris 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Folliculitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Facial herpes simplex 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Acneiform eruption 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Ear infection 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with Derma-Smoothe/FS(R). A post marketing (open-label) safety study was conducted in 58 children to evaluate the local safety of Derma-Smoothe/FS(R) when applied twice daily for 4 weeks to the face in children (2 to 12 years) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (see Table of Incidence of Adverse Events). Incidence of Adverse Events (%) N=58 Adverse Event (AE) The number of individual adverse events reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse event. # of patients (%) Day 14 Day 28 End of Treatment Day 56 Four Weeks Post Treatment Any AE 15 (25.9) 6 (10.3) 7 (12.1) 7 (12.1) Telangiectasia 5 (8.6) 3 (5.2) 4 (6.9) 2 (3.5) Erythema 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Itching 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Irritation 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Burning 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Hypopigmentation 2 (3.5) 2 (3.5) Shiny Skin 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Papules and pustules 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Keratosis pilaris 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Folliculitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Facial herpes simplex 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Acneiform eruption 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Ear infection 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with Derma-Smoothe/FS(R) Topical Oil."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with Fluocinolone acetonide 0.01% Oil."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with Fluocinolone Acetonide 0.01% Topical Oil. A post marketing (open-label) safety study was conducted in 58 children to evaluate the local safety of Fluocinolone Acetonide 0.01% Topical Oil when applied twice daily for 4 weeks to the face in children (2 to 12 years) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (see Table of Incidence of Adverse Events). Incidence of Adverse Events (%) N=58 Adverse Event (AE) The number of individual adverse events reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse event. # of patients (%) Day 14 Day 28 End of Treatment Day 56 Four Weeks Post Treatment Any AE 15 (25.9) 6 (10.3) 7 (12.1) 7 (12.1) Telangiectasia 5 (8.6) 3 (5.2) 4 (6.9) 2 (3.5) Erythema 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Itching 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Irritation 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Burning 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Hypopigmentation 2 (3.5) 2 (3.5) Shiny skin 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Papules and pustules 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Keratosis pilaris 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Folliculitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Facial herpes simplex 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Acneiform eruption 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Ear infection 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. One peanut sensitive child experienced a flare of his atopic dermatitis after 5 days of twice daily treatment with fluocinolone acetonide topical oil. A post marketing (open-label) safety study was conducted in 58 children to evaluate the local safety of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil when applied twice daily for 4 weeks to the face in children (2 to 12 years) with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (see Table of Incidence of Adverse Reactions). Incidence of Adverse Reactions (%) N=58 Adverse Reaction (AR)The number of individual adverse reactions reported does not necessarily reflect the number of individual subjects, since one subject could have multiple reporting of an adverse reaction. # of subjects (%) Day 14 Day 28End of Treatment Day 56Four Weeks Post Treatment Any AE 15 (25.9) 6 (10.3) 7 (12.1) 7 (12.1) Telangiectasia 5 (8.6) 3 (5.2) 4 (6.9) 2 (3.5) Erythema 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Itching 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Irritation 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Burning 3 (5.2) 3 (5.2) Hypopigmentation 2 (3.5) 2 (3.5) Shiny Skin 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Secondary atopic dermatitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Papules and pustules 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Keratosis pilaris 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Folliculitis 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Facial herpes simplex 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Acneiform eruption 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7) Ear infection 1 (1.7) 1 (1.7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. They may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings, especially with higher potency corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria, burning, itching, irritation and hypopigmentation."$$
