"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -CNS depressant effects: Impaired alertness and motor coordination, including risk of falling. Daytime impairment. Caution patients against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness. (5.1) -When discontinued, benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome can occur. (5.2) -The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and/or medical illness that should be evaluated. (5.3) -Severe anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions: Angioedema and anaphylaxis have been reported. Do not rechallenge if such reactions occur. (5.4) -Sleep driving and other complex behaviors while not fully awake: Risk increases with dose and concomitant CNS depressants and alcohol. Immediately evaluate any new onset behavioral changes. (5.5) -Worsening of depression or suicidal thinking may occur: Prescribe the least number of capsules feasible to avoid intentional overdose. (5.6) 5.1 CNS-Depressant Effects and Daytime Impairment Dizziness, drowsiness, light-headedness, staggering, ataxia and falling can occur, particularly in elderly or debilitated persons. Severe sedation, lethargy, disorientation and coma, probably indicative of drug intolerance or overdosage, have been reported. Flurazepam is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant and can impair daytime function even when used as prescribed. Prescribers should monitor for excess depressant effects, but impairment can occur in the absence of subjective symptoms, and may not be reliably detected by ordinary clinical exam (i.e., less than formal psychomotor testing). While pharmacodynamic tolerance or adaptation to some adverse depressant effects of flurazepam may develop, patients using flurazepam should be cautioned against driving or engaging in other hazardous activities or activities requiring complete mental alertness. Additive effects occur with concomitant use of other CNS depressants (e.g., other benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants, alcohol). Downward dose adjustment of flurazepam and concomitant CNS depressants should be considered. The potential for adverse drug interactions continues for several days following discontinuation of flurazepam, until serum levels of psychoactive metabolites decline. Use of flurazepam with other sedative-hypnotics is not recommended. Alcohol generally should not be used during treatment with flurazepam. The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment is increased if flurazepam is taken with less than a full night of sleep remaining (7 to 8 hours); if higher than the recommended dose is taken; if coadministered with other CNS depressants [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.2 Benzodiazepine Withdrawal Syndrome Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines. 5.3 Need to Evaluate for Co-morbid Disorders Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and/or psychiatric disorder, symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient. The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and/or medical illness that should be evaluated. Worsening of insomnia or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder. Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with sedative-hypnotic drugs. 5.4 Severe Anaphylactic or Anaphylactoid Reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue, glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative-hypnotics, including flurazepam. Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea, throat closing, or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis. Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis or larynx, airway obstruction may occur and be fatal. Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with flurazepam should not be rechallenged with the drug. 5.5 Abnormal Thinking and Behavior Changes Abnormal thinking and behavior changes have been reported in patients treated with sedative-hypnotics including flurazepam. Some of these changes include decreased inhibition (e.g., aggressiveness and extroversion that seemed out of character), bizarre behavior, and depersonalization. Visual and auditory hallucinations have also been reported. Amnesia, and other neuro-psychiatric symptoms, may occur. Paradoxical reactions such as stimulation, agitation, increased muscle spasticity, and sleep disturbances may occur unpredictably. Complex behaviors such as \\\\"sleep-driving\\\\" (i.e., driving while not fully awake, with amnesia for the event) have been reported with use of sedative-hypnotics. These behaviors can occur with initial treatment or in patients previously tolerant of flurazepam or other sedative-hypnotics. Although these behaviors can occur with use at therapeutic doses, risk is increased by higher doses or concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants. Due to risk to the patient and community, flurazepam should be discontinued if "sleep-driving" occurs. Other complex behaviors (e.g., preparing and eating food, making phone calls, or having sex) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative-hypnotic. As with sleep-driving, patients usually do not remember these events. 5.6 Worsening of Depression Benzodiazepines may worsen depression. Consequently, appropriate precautions (e.g., limiting the total prescription size and increased monitoring for suicidal ideation) should be considered."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label: -CNS-depressant effects and next-day impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Benzodiazepine Withdrawal Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Abnormal thinking and behavior changes, and complex behaviors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Worsening of depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Adverse reactions: dizziness, drowsiness, light-headedness, staggering, ataxia, falling. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Reported were headache, heartburn, upset stomach, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, gastrointestinal pain, nervousness, talkativeness, apprehension, irritability, weakness, palpitations, chest pains, body and joint pains, and genitourinary complaints. There have also been rare occurrences of leukopenia, granulocytopenia, sweating, flushes, difficulty in focusing, blurred vision, burning eyes, faintness, hypotension, shortness of breath, pruritus, skin rash, dry mouth, bitter taste, excessive salivation, anorexia, euphoria, depression, slurred speech, confusion, restlessness, hallucinations and elevated SGOT, SGPT, total and direct bilirubin elevations, and elevated alkaline phosphatase."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Benzodiazepines, including flurazepam, produce additive CNS depressant effects when co-administered with ethanol or other CNS depressants (e.g., psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistamines). Downward dose adjustment of flurazepam and/or concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary because of additive effects. -CNS Depressants: Downward dose adjustment may be necessary due to additive effects. (7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Dizziness, drowsiness, light-headedness, staggering, ataxia and falling have occurred, particularly in elderly or debilitated persons. Severe sedation, lethargy, disorientation and coma, probably indicative of drug intolerance or overdosage, have been reported. Also reported were headache, heartburn, upset stomach, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, gastrointestinal pain, nervousness, talkativeness, apprehension, irritability, weakness, palpitations, chest pains, body and joint pains and genitourinary complaints. There have also been rare occurrences of leukopenia, granulocytopenia, sweating, flushes, difficulty in focusing, blurred vision, burning eyes, faintness, hypotension, shortness of breath, pruritus, skin rash, dry mouth, bitter taste, excessive salivation, anorexia, euphoria, depression, slurred speech, confusion, restlessness, hallucinations, and elevated SGOT, SGPT, total and direct bilirubins, and alkaline phosphatase. Paradoxical reactions, e.g., excitement, stimulation and hyperactivity, have also been reported in rare instance."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Dizziness, drowsiness, light-headedness, staggering, ataxia and falling have occurred, particularly in elderly or debilitated persons. Severe sedation, lethargy, disorientation and coma, probably indicative of drug intolerance or overdosage, have been reported. Also reported were headache, heartburn, upset stomach, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, gastrointestinal pain, nervousness, talkativeness, apprehension, irritability, weakness, palpitations, chest pains, body and joint pains and genitourinary complaints. There have also been rare occurrences of leukopenia, granulocytopenia, sweating, flushes, difficulty in focusing, blurred vision, burning eyes, faintness, hypotension, shortness of breath, pruritus, skin rash, dry mouth, bitter taste, excessive salivation, anorexia, euphoria, depression, slurred speech, confusion, restlessness, hallucinations and elevated SGOT, SGPT, total and direct bilirubins, and alkaline phosphatase. Paradoxical reactions, e.g., excitement, stimulation and hyperactivity, have also been reported in rare instances."$$
