"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Follistim AQ Cartridge should be used only by physicians who are experienced in infertility treatment. Follistim AQ Cartridge contains a potent gonadotropic substance capable of causing Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] with or without pulmonary or vascular complications [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] and multiple births [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Gonadotropin therapy requires the availability of appropriate monitoring facilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Careful attention should be given to the diagnosis of infertility and in the selection of candidates for Follistim AQ Cartridge therapy [see Indications and Usage (1.1, 1.2, 1.3) and Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3, 2.4)]. Switching to Follistim AQ Cartridge from other brands (manufacturer), types (recombinant, urinary), and/or methods of administration (Follistim Pen, conventional syringe) may necessitate an adjustment of the dose [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Treatment with Follistim AQ may result in: Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement (5.1) Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) (5.2) Pulmonary and Vascular Complications (5.3) Ovarian Torsion (5.4) Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth (5.5) Congenital Anomalies (5.6) Ectopic Pregnancy (5.7) Spontaneous Abortion (5.8) Ovarian Neoplasms (5.9) 5.1 Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement In order to minimize the hazards associated with abnormal ovarian enlargement that may occur with Follistim AQ therapy, treatment should be individualized and the lowest effective dose should be used [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3) ]. Use of ultrasound monitoring of ovarian response and/or measurement of serum estradiol levels is important to minimize the risk of overstimulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] . If the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on the last day of Follistim AQ therapy, hCG should not be administered in order to reduce the chances of developing Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS). Intercourse should be prohibited in patients with significant ovarian enlargement after ovulation because of the danger of hemoperitoneum resulting from ruptured ovarian cysts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 5.2 Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) OHSS is a medical entity distinct from uncomplicated ovarian enlargement and may progress rapidly to become a serious medical condition. OHSS is characterized by a dramatic increase in vascular permeability, which can result in a rapid accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, thorax, and potentially, the pericardium. The early warning signs of OHSS developing are severe pelvic pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight gain. Abdominal pain, abdominal distension, gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, severe ovarian enlargement, weight gain, dyspnea, and oliguria have been reported with OHSS. Clinical evaluation may reveal hypovolemia, hemoconcentration, electrolyte imbalances, ascites, hemoperitoneum, pleural effusions, hydrothorax, acute pulmonary distress, and thromboembolic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Transient liver function test abnormalities suggestive of hepatic dysfunction with or without morphologic changes on liver biopsy have also been reported in association with OHSS. OHSS occurs after gonadotropin treatment has been discontinued, and it can develop rapidly, reaching its maximum about seven to ten days following treatment. Usually, OHSS resolves spontaneously with the onset of menses. If there is a risk for OHSS evident prior to hCG administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], the hCG must be withheld. Cases of OHSS are more common, more severe, and more protracted if pregnancy occurs; therefore, women should be assessed for the development of OHSS for at least two weeks after hCG administration. If serious OHSS occurs, gonadotropins, including hCG, should be stopped and consideration should be given as to whether the patient needs to be hospitalized. Treatment is primarily symptomatic and overall should consist of bed rest, fluid and electrolyte management, and analgesics (if needed). Because the use of diuretics can accentuate the diminished intravascular volume, diuretics should be avoided except in the late phase of resolution as described below. The management of OHSS may be divided into three phases as follows: Acute Phase: Management should be directed at preventing hemoconcentration due to loss of intravascular volume to the third space and minimizing the risk of thromboembolic phenomena and kidney damage. Fluid intake and output, weight, hematocrit, serum and urinary electrolytes, urine specific gravity, BUN and creatinine, total proteins with albumin: globulin ratio, coagulation studies, electrocardiogram to monitor for hyperkalemia, and abdominal girth should be thoroughly assessed daily or more often based on the clinical need. Treatment, consisting of limited intravenous fluids, electrolytes, and human serum albumin is intended to normalize electrolytes while maintaining an acceptable but somewhat reduced intravascular volume. Full correction of the intravascular volume deficit may lead to an unacceptable increase in the amount of third space fluid accumulation. Chronic Phase: After the acute phase is successfully managed as above, excessive fluid accumulation in the third space should be limited by instituting severe potassium, sodium, and fluid restriction. Resolution Phase: As third space fluid returns to the intravascular compartment, a fall in hematocrit and increasing urinary output are observed in the absence of any increase in intake. Peripheral and/or pulmonary edema may result if the kidneys are unable to excrete third space fluid as rapidly as it is mobilized. Diuretics may be indicated during the resolution phase, if necessary, to combat pulmonary edema. OHSS increases the risk of injury to the ovary. The ascitic, pleural, and pericardial fluid should not be removed unless there is the necessity to relieve symptoms such as pulmonary distress or cardiac tamponade. Pelvic examination may cause rupture of an ovarian cyst, which may result in hemoperitoneum, and should therefore be avoided. If bleeding occurs and requires surgical intervention, the clinical objective should be to control the bleeding and retain as much ovarian tissue as possible. During clinical trials with Follistim or Follistim AQ Cartridge therapy, OHSS occurred in 7.6% of 105 women (OI) and 6.4% of 751 women (IVF or ICSI) treated with Follistim and Follistim AQ Cartridge, respectively. 5.3 Pulmonary and Vascular Complications Serious pulmonary conditions (e.g., atelectasis, acute respiratory distress syndrome) have been reported in women treated with gonadotropins. In addition, thromboembolic reactions both in association with, and separate from OHSS have been reported following gonadotropin therapy. Intravascular thrombosis, which may originate in venous or arterial vessels, can result in reduced blood flow to vital organs or the extremities. Women with generally recognized risk factors for thrombosis, such as a personal or family history, severe obesity, or thrombophilia, may have an increased risk of venous or arterial thromboembolic events, during or following treatment with gonadotropins. Sequelae of such reactions have included venous thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism, pulmonary infarction, cerebral vascular occlusion (stroke), and arterial occlusion resulting in loss of limb and rarely in myocardial infarction. In rare cases, pulmonary complications and/or thromboembolic reactions have resulted in death. In women with recognized risk factors, the benefits of ovulation induction, in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatment need to be weighed against the risks. It should be noted, that pregnancy itself also carries an increased risk of thrombosis. 5.4 Ovarian Torsion Ovarian torsion has been reported after treatment with Follistim AQ Cartridge and after intervention with other gonadotropins. This may be related to OHSS, pregnancy, previous abdominal surgery, past history of ovarian torsion, previous or current ovarian cyst and polycystic ovaries. Damage to the ovary due to reduced blood supply can be limited by early diagnosis and immediate detorsion. 5.5 Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth Multi-fetal gestation and births have been reported with all gonadotropin treatments including Follistim AQ Cartridge treatment. The woman and her partner should be advised of the potential risk of multi-fetal gestation and births before starting treatment. 5.6 Congenital Anomalies The incidence of congenital malformations after IVF or ICSI may be slightly higher than after spontaneous conception. This slightly higher incidence is thought to be related to differences in parental characteristics (e.g., maternal age, sperm characteristics) and to the higher incidence of multi-fetal gestations after IVF or ICSI. There are no indications that the use of gonadotropins during IVF or ICSI is associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations. 5.7 Ectopic Pregnancy Since infertile women undergoing IVF or ICSI often have tubal abnormalities, the incidence of ectopic pregnancies might be increased. Early confirmation of an intrauterine pregnancy should be determined by \\316\\262-hCG testing and transvaginal ultrasound. 5.8 Spontaneous Abortion The risk of spontaneous abortions (miscarriage) is increased with gonadotropin products. However, causality has not been established. The increased risk may be a factor of the underlying infertility. 5.9 Ovarian Neoplasms There have been infrequent reports of ovarian neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women who have undergone multiple drug regimens for controlled ovarian stimulation; however, a causal relationship has not been established. 5.10 Laboratory Tests For Women: In most instances, treatment with Follistim AQ Cartridge will result only in follicular growth and maturation. In order to complete the final phase of follicular maturation and to induce ovulation, hCG must be given following the administration of Follistim AQ Cartridge or when clinical assessment indicates that sufficient follicular maturation has occurred. The degree of follicular maturation and the timing of hCG administration can both be determined with the use of sonographic visualization of the ovaries and endometrial lining in conjunction with measurement of serum estradiol levels. The combination of transvaginal ultrasonography and measurement of serum estradiol levels is also useful for minimizing the risk of OHSS and multi-fetal gestations. The clinical confirmation of ovulation is obtained by the following direct or indirect indices of progesterone production as well as sonographic evidence of ovulation. Direct or indirect indices of progesterone production are: Urinary or serum luteinizing hormone (LH) rise A rise in basal body temperature Increase in serum progesterone Menstruation following the shift in basal body temperature The following provide sonographic evidence of ovulation: Collapsed follicle Fluid in the cul-de-sac Features consistent with corpus luteum formation Sonographic evaluation of the early pregnancy is also important to rule out ectopic pregnancy. For Men: Clinical monitoring for spermatogenesis utilizes the following indirect or direct measures: Serum testosterone level Semen analysis 5.11 Follistim Pen The Follistim Pen is intended only for use with Follistim AQ Cartridge. The Follistim Pen is not recommended for the blind or visually impaired without the assistance of an individual with good vision who is trained in the proper use of the injection device."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Follistim AQ should be used only by physicians who are experienced in infertility treatment. Follistim AQ is a potent gonadotropic substance capable of causing Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] with or without pulmonary or vascular complications [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] and multiple births [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Gonadotropin therapy requires the availability of appropriate monitoring facilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Careful attention should be given to the diagnosis of infertility and in the selection of candidates for Follistim AQ therapy [see Indications and Usage (1.1, 1.2, 1.3) and Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3, 2.4)]. Treatment with Follistim AQ may result in: Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement (5.1) Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) (5.2) Pulmonary and Vascular Complications (5.3) Ovarian Torsion (5.4) Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth (5.5) Congenital Anomalies (5.6) Ectopic Pregnancy (5.7) Spontaneous Abortion (5.8) Ovarian Neoplasms (5.9) 5.1 Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement In order to minimize the hazards associated with abnormal ovarian enlargement that may occur with Follistim AQ therapy, treatment should be individualized and the lowest effective dose should be used [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)]. Use of ultrasound monitoring of ovarian response and/or measurement of serum estradiol levels is important to minimize the risk of overstimulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. If the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on the last day of Follistim AQ therapy, hCG should not be administered in order to reduce the chances of developing Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS). Intercourse should be prohibited in patients with significant ovarian enlargement after ovulation because of the danger of hemoperitoneum resulting from ruptured ovarian cysts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 5.2 Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) OHSS is a medical entity distinct from uncomplicated ovarian enlargement and may progress rapidly to become a serious medical condition. OHSS is characterized by a dramatic increase in vascular permeability, which can result in a rapid accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, thorax, and potentially, the pericardium. The early warning signs of OHSS developing are severe pelvic pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight gain. Abdominal pain, abdominal distension, gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, severe ovarian enlargement, weight gain, dyspnea, and oliguria have been reported with OHSS. Clinical evaluation may reveal hypovolemia, hemoconcentration, electrolyte imbalances, ascites, hemoperitoneum, pleural effusions, hydrothorax, acute pulmonary distress, and thromboembolic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Transient liver function test abnormalities suggestive of hepatic dysfunction with or without morphologic changes on liver biopsy have also been reported in association with OHSS. OHSS occurs after gonadotropin treatment has been discontinued and it can develop rapidly, reaching its maximum about seven to ten days following treatment. Usually, OHSS resolves spontaneously with the onset of menses. If there is evidence that OHSS may be developing prior to hCG administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], the hCG must be withheld. Cases of OHSS are more common, more severe, and more protracted if pregnancy occurs; therefore, women should be assessed for the development of OHSS for at least two weeks after hCG administration. If serious OHSS occurs, treatment should be stopped and the patient should be hospitalized. Treatment is primarily symptomatic and overall should consist of bed rest, fluid and electrolyte management, and analgesics (if needed). Because the use of diuretics can accentuate the diminished intravascular volume, diuretics should be avoided except in the late phase of resolution as described below. The management of OHSS may be divided into three phases as follows: Acute Phase: Management should be directed at preventing hemoconcentration due to loss of intravascular volume to the third space and minimizing the risk of thromboembolic phenomena and kidney damage. Fluid intake and output, weight, hematocrit, serum and urinary electrolytes, urine specific gravity, BUN and creatinine, total proteins with albumin: globulin ratio, coagulation studies, electrocardiogram to monitor for hyperkalemia, and abdominal girth should be thoroughly assessed daily or more often based on the clinical need. Treatment, consisting of limited intravenous fluids, electrolytes, human serum albumin, is intended to normalize electrolytes while maintaining an acceptable but somewhat reduced intravascular volume. Full correction of the intravascular volume deficit may lead to an unacceptable increase in the amount of third space fluid accumulation Chronic Phase: After the acute phase is successfully managed as above, excessive fluid accumulation in the third space should be limited by instituting severe potassium, sodium, and fluid restriction Resolution Phase: As third space fluid returns to the intravascular compartment, a fall in hematocrit and increasing urinary output are observed in the absence of any increase in intake. Peripheral and/or pulmonary edema may result if the kidneys are unable to excrete third space fluid as rapidly as it is mobilized. Diuretics may be indicated during the resolution phase, if necessary, to combat pulmonary edema OHSS increases the risk of injury to the ovary. The ascitic, pleural, and pericardial fluid should not be removed unless there is the necessity to relieve symptoms such as pulmonary distress or cardiac tamponade. Pelvic examination may cause rupture of an ovarian cyst, which may result in hemoperitoneum, and should therefore be avoided. If bleeding occurs and requires surgical intervention, the clinical objective should be to control the bleeding and retain as much ovarian tissue as possible. During clinical trials with Follistim therapy, OHSS occurred in 7.6% of 105 women (OI) and 5.2% of 591 women (ART) treated with Follistim. 5.3 Pulmonary and Vascular Complications Serious pulmonary conditions (e.g., atelectasis, acute respiratory distress syndrome) have been reported in women treated with gonadotropins. In addition, thromboembolic reactions both in association with, and separate from, OHSS have been reported following gonadotropin therapy. Intravascular thrombosis, which may originate in venous or arterial vessels, can result in reduced blood flow to vital organs or the extremities. Women with generally recognized risk factors for thrombosis, such as a personal or family history, severe obesity, or thrombophilia, may have an increased risk of venous or arterial thromboembolic events, during or following treatment with gonadotropins. Sequelae of such reactions have included venous thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism, pulmonary infarction, cerebral vascular occlusion (stroke), and arterial occlusion resulting in loss of limb and rarely in myocardial infarction. In rare cases, pulmonary complications and/or thromboembolic reactions have resulted in death. In women with recognized risk factors, the benefits of ovulation induction or in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment need to be weighed against the risks. It should be noted that pregnancy itself also carries an increased risk of thrombosis. 5.4 Ovarian Torsion Ovarian torsion has been reported after treatment with Follistim AQ and after intervention with other gonadotropins. This may be related to OHSS, pregnancy, previous abdominal surgery, past history of ovarian torsion, previous or current ovarian cyst and polycystic ovaries. Damage to the ovary due to reduced blood supply can be limited by early diagnosis and immediate detorsion. 5.5 Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth Multi-fetal gestation and births have been reported with all gonadotropin treatments including Follistim AQ treatment. The woman and her partner should be advised of the potential risk of multi-fetal gestation and births before starting treatment. 5.6 Congenital Anomalies The incidence of congenital malformations after ART may be slightly higher than after spontaneous conception. This slightly higher incidence is thought to be related to differences in parental characteristics (e.g., maternal age, sperm characteristics) and to the higher incidence of multi-fetal gestations after ART. There are no indications that the use of gonadotropins during ART is associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations. 5.7 Ectopic Pregnancy Since infertile women undergoing ART, and particularly IVF, often have tubal abnormalities the incidence of ectopic pregnancies might be increased. Early confirmation of an intrauterine pregnancy should be determined by hCG testing and transvaginal ultrasound. 5.8 Spontaneous Abortion The risk of spontaneous abortions (miscarriage) is increased with gonadotropin products. However, causality has not been established. The increased risk may be a factor of the underlying infertility. 5.9 Ovarian Neoplasms There have been infrequent reports of ovarian neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women who have undergone multiple drug regimens for ovulation induction; however, a causal relationship has not been established. 5.10 Laboratory Tests For Women: In most instances, treatment with Follistim AQ will result only in follicular growth and maturation. In order to complete the final phase of follicular maturation and to induce ovulation, hCG must be given following the administration of Follistim AQ or when clinical assessment indicates that sufficient follicular maturation has occurred. The degree of follicular maturation and the timing of hCG administration can both be determined with the use of sonographic visualization of the ovaries and endometrial lining in conjunction with measurement of serum estradiol levels. The combination of transvaginal ultrasonography and measurement of serum estradiol levels is also useful for minimizing the risk of OHSS and multi-fetal gestations. The clinical confirmation of ovulation is obtained by the following direct or indirect indices of progesterone production as well as sonographic evidence of ovulation. Direct or indirect indices of progesterone production are: Urinary or serum luteinizing hormone (LH) rise A rise in basal body temperature Increase in serum progesterone Menstruation following the shift in basal body temperature The following provide sonographic evidence of ovulation: Collapsed follicle Fluid in the cul-de-sac Features consistent with corpus luteum formation Sonographic evaluation of the early pregnancy is also important to rule out ectopic pregnancy. For Men: Clinical monitoring for spermatogenesis utilizes the following indirect or direct measures: Serum testosterone level Semen analysis"$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Gonal-f(R) RFF Redi-ject(TM) should only be used by physicians who are experienced in infertility treatment. Gonal-f(R) RFF Redi-ject(TM) contains a gonadotropic substance capable of causing Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) in women with or without pulmonary or vascular complications [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5)] and multiple births [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Gonadotropin therapy requires the availability of appropriate monitoring facilities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. The lowest effective dose should be used. Careful attention should be given to the diagnosis of infertility and the selection of candidates for Gonal-f(R) RFF Redi-ject(TM) therapy [see Indications and Usage (1.1, 1.2) and Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)]. Hypersensitivity Reactions and Anaphylaxis (5.1) Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement (5.2) Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (5.3) Pulmonary and Vascular Complications (5.4) Ovarian Torsion (5.5) Multi-fetal Gestation and Births (5.6) Congenital Malformation (5.7) Ectopic Pregnancy (5.8) Spontaneous Abortion (5.9) Ovarian Neoplasms (5.10) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions and Anaphylaxis Serious systemic hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported in the postmarketing experience with Gonal-f(R) and Gonal-f(R) RFF. Symptoms have included dyspnea, facial edema, pruritis, and urticaria. If an anaphylactic or other serious allergic reaction occurs, initiate appropriate therapy including supportive measures if cardiovascular instability and/or respiratory compromise occur, and discontinue further use. 5.2 Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement In order to minimize the hazards associated with abnormal ovarian enlargement that may occur with Gonal-f(R) RFF Redi-ject(TM) therapy, treatment should be individualized and the lowest effective dose should be used [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)]. Use of ultrasound monitoring of ovarian response and/or measurement of serum estradiol levels is important to minimize the risk of ovarian stimulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. If the ovaries are abnormally enlarged on the last day of Gonal-f(R) RFF Redi-ject(TM) therapy, hCG should not be administered in order to reduce the chance of developing Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Intercourse should be prohibited in women with significant ovarian enlargement after ovulation because of the danger of hemoperitoneum resulting from rupture of ovarian cysts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 5.3 Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) OHSS is a medical entity distinct from uncomplicated ovarian enlargement and may progress rapidly to become a serious medical event. OHSS is characterized by a dramatic increase in vascular permeability, which can result in a rapid accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, thorax, and potentially, the pericardium. The early warning signs of development of OHSS are severe pelvic pain, nausea, vomiting, and weight gain. Abdominal pain, abdominal distension, gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, severe ovarian enlargement, weight gain, dyspnea, and oliguria have been reported with OHSS. Clinical evaluation may reveal hypovolemia, hemoconcentration, electrolyte imbalances, ascites, hemoperitoneum, pleural effusions, hydrothorax, acute pulmonary distress, and thromboembolic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Transient liver function test abnormalities suggestive of hepatic dysfunction with or without morphologic changes on liver biopsy, have been reported in association with OHSS. OHSS occurs after gonadotropin treatment has been discontinued and it can develop rapidly, reaching its maximum about seven to ten days following treatment. Usually, OHSS resolves spontaneously with the onset of menses. If there is evidence that OHSS may be developing prior to hCG administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], the hCG must be withheld. Cases of OHSS are more common, more severe, and more protracted if pregnancy occurs; therefore, women should be assessed for the development of OHSS for at least two weeks after hCG administration. If serious OHSS occurs, gonadotropins, including hCG, should be stopped and consideration should be given as to whether the woman needs to be hospitalized. Treatment is primarily symptomatic and overall should consist of bed rest, fluid and electrolyte management, and analgesics (if needed). Because the use of diuretics can accentuate the diminished intravascular volume, diuretics should be avoided except in the late phase of resolution as described below. The management of OHSS may be divided into three phases as follows: Acute Phase: Management should be directed at preventing hemoconcentration due to loss of intravascular volume to the third space and minimizing the risk of thromboembolic phenomena and kidney damage. Fluid intake and output, weight, hematocrit, serum and urinary electrolytes, urine specific gravity, BUN and creatinine, total proteins with albumin: globulin ratio, coagulation studies, electrocardiogram to monitor for hyperkalemia, and abdominal girth should be thoroughly assessed daily or more often based on the clinical need. Treatment, consisting of limited intravenous fluids, electrolytes, human serum albumin, is intended to normalize electrolytes while maintaining an acceptable but somewhat reduced intravascular volume. Full correction of the intravascular volume deficit may lead to an unacceptable increase in the amount of third space fluid accumulation. Chronic Phase: After the acute phase is successfully managed as above, excessive fluid accumulation in the third space should be limited by instituting severe potassium, sodium, and fluid restriction. Resolution Phase: As third space fluid returns to the intravascular compartment, a fall in hematocrit and increasing urinary output are observed in the absence of any increase in intake. Peripheral and/or pulmonary edema may result if the kidneys are unable to excrete third space fluid as rapidly as it is mobilized. Diuretics may be indicated during the resolution phase, if necessary, to combat pulmonary edema. Ascitic, pleural, and pericardial fluid should not be removed unless there is the necessity to relieve symptoms such as pulmonary distress or cardiac tamponade. OHSS increases the risk of injury to the ovary. Pelvic examination or intercourse may cause rupture of an ovarian cyst, which may result in hemoperitoneum, and should therefore be avoided. If bleeding occurs and requires surgical intervention, the clinical objective should be to control the bleeding and retain as much ovarian tissue as possible. A physician experienced in the management of this syndrome, or who is experienced in the management of fluid and electrolyte imbalances should be consulted. During clinical trials with Gonal-f(R) RFF, OHSS occurred in 7.2% of 83 women and 4.6% of 237 women treated with Gonal-f(R) RFF for ovulation induction and during Assisted Reproductive Technology, respectively. 5.4 Pulmonary and Vascular Complications Serious pulmonary conditions (e.g., atelectasis, acute respiratory distress syndrome and exacerbation of asthma) have been reported in women treated with gonadotropins. In addition, thromboembolic events both in association with, and separate from OHSS have been reported in women treated with gonadotropins. Intravascular thrombosis and embolism, which may originate in venous or arterial vessels, can result in reduced blood flow to critical organs or the extremities. Women with generally recognized risk factors for thrombosis, such as personal or family history, severe obesity, or thrombophilia, may have an increased risk of venous or arterial thromboembolic events, during or following treatment with gonadotropins. Sequelae of such reactions have included venous thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism, pulmonary infarction, cerebral vascular occlusion (stroke), and arterial occlusion resulting in loss of limb and rarely in myocardial infarctions. In rare cases, pulmonary complications and/or thromboembolic reactions have resulted in death. In women with recognized risk factors, the benefits of ovulation induction and assisted reproductive technology need to be weighed against the risks. It should be noted that pregnancy also carries an increased risk of thrombosis. 5.5 Ovarian Torsion Ovarian torsion has been reported after treatment with gonadotropins. This may be related to OHSS, pregnancy, previous abdominal surgery, past history of ovarian torsion, previous or current ovarian cyst and polycystic ovaries. Damage to the ovary due to reduced blood supply can be limited by early diagnosis and immediate detorsion. 5.6 Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth Multi-fetal gestation and births have been reported with all gonadotropin therapy including therapy with Gonal-f(R) RFF. During clinical trials with Gonal-f(R) RFF, multiple births occurred in 20% of live births in women receiving therapy for ovulation induction and 35.1 % of live births in women undergoing ART. The woman and her partner should be advised of the potential risk of multi-fetal gestation and birth before beginning therapy with Gonal-f(R) RFF Redi-ject(TM). 5.7 Congenital Malformations The incidence of congenital malformations after some ART [specifically in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)] may be slightly higher than after spontaneous conception. This slightly higher incidence is thought to be related to differences in parental characteristics (e.g., maternal age, maternal and paternal genetic background, sperm characteristics) and to the higher incidence of multi-fetal gestations after IVF or ICSI. There are no indications that the use of gonadotropins during IVF or ICSI is associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations. 5.8 Ectopic Pregnancy Since infertile women undergoing ART often have tubal abnormalities, the incidence of ectopic pregnancy may be increased. Early confirmation of intrauterine pregnancy should be determined by \\316\\262-hCG testing and transvaginal ultrasound. 5.9 Spontaneous Abortion The risk of spontaneous abortion (miscarriage) is increased with gonadotropin products. However, causality has not been established. The increased risk may be a factor of the underlying infertility. 5.10 Ovarian Neoplasms There have been infrequent reports of ovarian neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women who have had multiple drug therapy for controlled ovarian stimulation, however, a causal relationship has not been established. 5.11 Laboratory Tests In most instances, treatment of women with Gonal-f(R) RFF Redi-ject(TM) will result only in follicular growth and maturation. In the absence of an endogenous LH surge, hCG is given when monitoring of the woman indicates that sufficient follicular development has occurred. This may be estimated by ultrasound alone or in combination with measurement of serum estradiol levels. The combination of both ultrasound and serum estradiol measurement are useful for monitoring follicular growth and maturation, timing of the ovulatory trigger, detecting ovarian enlargement and minimizing the risk of the OHSS and multiple gestation. The clinical confirmation of ovulation is obtained by direct or indirect indices of progesterone production as well as sonographic evidence of ovulation. Direct or indirect indices of progesterone production: Urinary or serum luteinizing hormone (LH) rise A rise in basal body temperature Increase in serum progesterone Menstruation following a shift in basal body temperature Sonographic evidence of ovulation: Collapsed follicle Fluid in the cul-de-sac Features consistent with corpus luteum formation Secretory endometrium"$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Hypersensitivity Reactions and Anaphylaxis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Abnormal Ovarian Enlargement [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Atelectasis, acute respiratory distress syndrome and exacerbation of asthma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Thromboembolic events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Ovarian Torsion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Congenital Malformations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Ectopic Pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Spontaneous Abortion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Ovarian Neoplasms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] The most common adverse reactions (>=5%) in ovulation induction include: headache, abdominal pain, ovarian hyperstimulation (6.1) The most common adverse reactions (>=5%) in ART include: abdominal pain, nausea, abdominal enlargement, headache, injection site bruising (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact EMD Serono at 1-800-283-8088, Ext 5563 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of Gonal-f(R) RFF was examined in two clinical studies (one ovulation induction study and one ART study). Ovulation Induction In a multiple cycle (3), assessor-blind, multinational, multicenter, active comparator study vs. a recombinant FSH comparator, a total of 83 oligo-anovulatory infertile women were randomized and underwent ovulation induction with Gonal-f(R) RFF. Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2.0% of women receiving Gonal-f(R) RFF are listed in Table 1. Table 1: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >= 2% in an Ovulation Induction Study System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Gonal-f(R) RFF N=83total number of women treated with Gonal-f(R) RFF(176 treatment cyclesup to 3 treatment cycles per woman) nnumber of women with the adverse reaction (%) Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 22 (26.5%) Gastrointestinal System Abdominal Pain 10 (12.0%) Nausea 3 (3.6%) Flatulence 3 (3.6%) Diarrhea 3 (3.6%) Neoplasm Ovarian Cyst 3 (3.6%) Reproductive, Female Ovarian Hyperstimulation 6 (7.2%) Application Site Injection Site Pain 4 (4.8%) Injection Site Inflammation 2 (2.4%) Assisted Reproductive Technology In a single cycle, assessor-blind, multinational, multicenter, active comparator study vs. a recombinant FSH comparator, a total of 237 normal ovulatory infertile women were randomized and received Gonal-f(R) RFF as part of an ART [in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycle (ICSI)] cycle. All women received pituitary down-regulation with gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist before stimulation. Adverse Reactions occurring in at least 2.0% of women are listed in Table 2. Table 2: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >= 2% in an Assisted Reproductive Technologies Study System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Gonal-f(R) RFF N=237total number of women treated with Gonal-f(R) RFF nnumber of women with the adverse reaction (%) Gastrointestinal System Abdominal Pain 55 (23.2%) Nausea 19 (8.0%) Body as a Whole- General Abdomen Enlarged 33 (13.9%) Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 44 (18.6%) Application Site Disorders Injection Site Bruising 23 (9.7%) Injection Site Pain 13 (5.5%) Injection Site Inflammation 10 (4.2%) Injection Site Reaction 10 (4.2%) Application Site Edema 6 (2.5%) Reproductive, Female Ovarian Hyperstimulation 11 (4.6%) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during postmarketing use of Gonal-f(R) RFF. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, the frequency or a causal relationship to Gonal-f(R) RFF cannot be reliably determined. Body as a Whole - General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Respiratory System: Asthma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Atelectasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Ovarian Torsion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Congenital Anomalies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Ectopic Pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Spontaneous Abortion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] The most common adverse reactions (>=2%) in women undergoing ovulation induction are: ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, ovarian cyst, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain and lower abdominal pain. (6.1) The most common adverse reactions (>=2%) in women receiving ART are ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome and abdominal pain. (6.1) The most common (>=2%) adverse reactions in men undergoing induction of spermatogenesis are headache, acne, injection site reaction, injection site pain, gynecomastia, rash and dermoid cyst. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Ovulation Induction In a single cycle, multi-center, assessor-blind, parallel group, comparative study, a total of 172 chronic anovulatory women who had failed to ovulate and/or conceive with clomiphene citrate therapy, were randomized and treated with Follistim (105) or a urofollitropin comparator. Adverse reactions with an incidence of greater than 2% in either treatment group are listed in Table 1. TABLE 1: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >=2% in an Assessor-Blind, Comparative Study of Women Receiving Ovulation Induction System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Treatment Number (%) of Women Follistim N=105 n (%) Comparator N=67 n (%) Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort 3 (2.9) 1 (1.5) Abdominal pain 3 (2.9) 2 (3.0) Abdominal pain lower 3 (2.9) 1 (1.5) Reproductive system and breast disorders Ovarian cyst 3 (2.9) 2 (3.0) Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome 8 (7.6) 3 (4.5) General disorders and administration site conditions Pyrexia 0 (0.0) 2 (3.0) Adverse reactions reported commonly (greater than or equal to 2% of women treated with Follistim) in other ovulation induction clinical trials were headache, abdominal distension, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, pelvic pain, uterine enlargement, vaginal hemorrhage and injection site reaction. The following medical events have been reported subsequent to pregnancies resulting from Follistim AQ therapy: Ectopic pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Spontaneous abortion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] ART In a multiple cycle, multi-center, assessor-blind, parallel group, comparative study, after pituitary suppression with a gonadotropin release hormone (GnRH) agonist, a total of 989 women were randomized and treated with Follistim (N=591) or a urofollitropin comparator as part of in vitro fertilization therapy (IVF). Adverse reactions with an incidence of greater than 2% in either treatment group are listed in Table 2. TABLE 2: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >=2% in an Assessor-Blind, Comparative Study of Women Receiving In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Treatment Number (%) of Women Follistim N=591 n (%) Comparator N=398 n (%) Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain 13 (2.2) 4 (1.0) Reproductive system and breast disorders Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome 31 (5.2) 17 (4.3) Adverse reactions reported commonly (greater than or equal to 2% of women treated with Follistim) in other IVF clinical trials were headache, abdominal distension, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, pelvic pain, breast tenderness, metrorrhagia, ovarian enlargement, vaginal hemorrhage, injection site reaction and rash. The following medical events have been reported subsequent to pregnancies resulting from Follistim AQ therapy: Ectopic pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Spontaneous abortion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Induction of Spermatogenesis In an open-label, non-comparative clinical trial, 49 men with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism were enrolled to received pretreatment with hCG, followed by combination therapy with hCG and Follistim for induction of spermatogenesis. Of the 49 men, 30 received weekly Follistim doses of 450 international units; 24 of these 30 men received a total of 48 weeks of treatment with Follistim. Adverse reactions occurring with an incidence of greater than 2% in the 30 men treated with Follistim are listed in Table 3. TABLE 3: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >=2% in an Open-Label Clinical Trial in Men with Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Follistim Treatment N=30 n (%) Nervous system disorders Headache 2 (6.7) General disorders and administration site disorders Injection site reaction 2 (6.7) Injection site pain 2 (6.7) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Acne 2 (6.7) Rash 1 (3.3) Reproductive system and breast disorders Gynecomastia 1 (3.3) Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified Dermoid cyst 1 (3.3) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Follistim and/or Follistim AQ. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Vascular disorders: Thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Atelectasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Ovarian Torsion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Multi-fetal Gestation and Birth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Congenital Anomalies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Ectopic Pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Spontaneous Abortion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] The most common adverse reactions (>=2%) in women undergoing ovulation induction are ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, ovarian cyst, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain and lower abdominal pain. (6.1) The most common adverse reactions (>=2%) in women undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation as part of an IVF or ICSI cycle are pelvic discomfort, headache, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, pelvic pain, nausea and fatigue. (6.1) The most common (>=2%) adverse reactions in men undergoing induction of spermatogenesis are headache, acne, injection site reaction, injection site pain, gynecomastia, rash and dermoid cyst. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Ovulation Induction In a single cycle, multi-center, assessor-blind, parallel group, comparative study, a total of 172 chronic anovulatory women who had failed to ovulate and/or conceive with clomiphene citrate therapy, were randomized and treated with Follistim (105) or a urofollitropin comparator. Adverse reactions with an incidence of greater than 2% in either treatment group are listed in Table 2. Table 2: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >=2% in an Assessor-Blind, Comparative Study of Anovulatory Women Receiving Ovulation Induction System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Treatment Number (%) of Women Follistim N=105 n (%) Comparator N=67 n (%) Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort 3 (2.9) 1 (1.5) Abdominal pain 3 (2.9) 2 (3.0) Abdominal pain lower 3 (2.9) 1 (1.5) Reproductive system and breast disorders Ovarian cyst 3 (2.9) 2 (3.0) Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome 8 (7.6) 3 (4.5) General disorders and administration site conditions Pyrexia 0 (0.0) 2 (3.0) Adverse reactions reported commonly (greater than or equal to 2% of women treated with Follistim) in other ovulation induction clinical trials were headache, abdominal distension, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, pelvic pain, uterine enlargement, vaginal hemorrhage and injection site reaction. In Vitro Fertilization/Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection In a single cycle, multi-center, double-blind, parallel group, comparative study, a total of 1509 women were randomized to receive controlled ovarian stimulation with either Follistim AQ Cartridge (751 women were treated with Follistim AQ Cartridge) or a comparator and pituitary suppression with a gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist as part of an in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) cycle. Table 3 lists adverse reactions with an incidence of greater than 2% in the group of women treated with Follistim AQ Cartridge. Table 3: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >=2% in a Randomized, Double-blind, Active-controlled, Comparative Study of Normal Ovulatory Women Undergoing Controlled Ovarian Stimulation as Part of an In Vitro Fertilization or Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection Cycle System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Follistim AQ Cartridge Treatment N = 751 nn = number of women with the adverse reaction (%) Nervous System disorders Headache 55 (7.3%) Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 29 (3.9%) Reproductive system and breast disorders Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome 48 (6.4%) Pelvic discomfort 62 (8.3%) Pelvic Pain 41 (5.5%) General disorders and Administration site conditions Fatigue 17 (2.3%) Induction of Spermatogenesis In an open-label, non-comparative clinical trial, 49 men with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism were enrolled to receive pretreatment with hCG, followed by combination therapy with hCG and Follistim for induction of spermatogenesis. Of the 49 men, 30 received weekly Follistim doses of 450 international units; 24 of these 30 men received a total of 48 weeks of treatment with Follistim. Adverse reactions occurring with an incidence of greater than 2% in the 30 men treated with Follistim are listed in Table 4. Table 4: Common Adverse Reactions Reported at a Frequency of >=2% in an Open-Label Clinical Trial in Men with Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism System Organ Class/Adverse Reactions Follistim Treatment N=30 n (%) Nervous system disorders Headache 2 (6.7) General disorders and administration site disorders Injection site reaction 2 (6.7) Injection site pain 2 (6.7) Skin and cutaneous tissue disorders Acne 2 (6.7) Rash 1 (3.3) Reproductive system and breast disorders Gynecomastia 1 (3.3) Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified Dermoid cyst 1 (3.3) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Follistim and/or Follistim AQ Cartridge. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal distension, abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea General disorders and administration site conditions Injection site reaction Reproductive system and breast disorders Breast tenderness, metrorrhagia, ovarian enlargement, vaginal hemorrhage Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash Vascular disorders Thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been performed."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been performed."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of Gonal-f(R) RFF was examined in two clinical studies [one ovulation induction study (n=83) and one study in ART (n=237)]. Adverse events (without regard to causality assessment) occurring in at least 2.0% of patients in Study 22240 (ovulation induction) are listed in Table 4. Table 4: Safety Profile in Ovulation Induction Study 22240 Body System Preferred Term Gonal-f(R) RFF Patients (%) Experiencing Events Treatment cycles=176up to 3 cycles of therapy n=83total patients treated with Gonal-f(R) RFF Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 22 (26.5%) Dizziness 2 (2.4%) Migraine 3 (3.6%) Gastro-intestinal System Abdominal Pain 10 (12.0%) Nausea 3 (3.6%) Flatulence 3 (3.6%) Diarrhea 3 (3.6%) Toothache 3 (3.6%) Dyspepsia 2 (2.4%) Constipation 2 (2.4%) Stomatitis Ulcerative 2 (2.4%) Neoplasm Ovarian Cyst 3 (3.6%) Reproductive, Female Ovarian Hyperstimulation 6 (7.2%) Breast Pain Female 5 (6.0%) Vaginal Haemorrhage 5 (6.0%) Gynecological-related pain 2 (2.4%) Uterine haemorrhage 2 (2.4%) Respiratory System Sinusitis 5 (6.0%) Pharyngitis 6 (7.2%) Rhinitis 6 (7.2%) Coughing 2 (2.4%) Application Site Injection Site Pain 4 (4.8%) Injection Site Inflammation 2 (2.4%) Body as a Whole- General Back Pain 3 (3.6%) Pain 2 (2.4%) Fever 2 (2.4%) Hot Flushes 2 (2.4%) Malaise 2 (2.4%) Skin and Appendages Acne 3 (3.6%) Urinary System Micturition Frequency 2 (2.4%) Cystitis 2 (2.4%) Resistance Mechanism Infection viral 2 (2.4%) Headache occurred in greater than 20% of patients receiving Gonal-f(R) RFF in this study. Adverse events (without regard to causality assessment) occurring in at least 2.0% of patients in Study 21884 (ART) are listed in Table 5. Table 5: Safety Profile in Assisted Reproductive Technologies Study 21884 Body System Preferred Term Gonal-f(R) RFF Patients (%) Experiencing Events n=237total patients treated with Gonal-f(R) RFF Gastro-intestinal System Abdominal Pain 55 (23.2%) Nausea 19 (8.0%) Body as a Whole- General Abdomen Enlarged 33 (13.9%) Pain 7 (3.0%) Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 44 (18.6%) Dizziness 5 (2.1)% Application Site Disorders Injection site bruising 23 (9.7%) Injection site pain 13 (5.5%) Injection site inflammation 10 (4.2%) Injection site reaction 10 (4.2)% Application site edema 6 (2.5)% Reproductive, Female Ovarian Hyperstimulation 11 (4.6%) Intermenstrual Bleeding 9 (3.8%) Headache and abdomen enlargement occurred in more than 10% of patients and abdominal pain occurred in more than 20% of patients. The following medical events have been reported subsequent to pregnancies resulting from Gonadotropins in controlled clinical studies: Spontaneous Abortion Ectopic Pregnancy Premature Labor Postpartum Fever Congenital Abnormalities There are no indications that use of gonadotropins during ART is associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations. The following adverse reactions have been previously reported during Gonal-f(R) RFF therapy: Pulmonary and vascular complications (see WARNINGS ), Adnexal torsion (as a complication of ovarian enlargement), Mild to moderate ovarian enlargement, Hemoperitoneum There have been infrequent reports of ovarian neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women who have undergone multiple drug regimens for ovulation induction; however, a causal relationship has not been established. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been reported during postmarketing use of Gonal-f(R) RFF. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, the frequency or a causal relationship to Gonal-f(R) RFF can not be reliably determined. Body as a Whole - General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions. Respiratory System: asthma"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Women The safety of Gonal-f(R) was examined in four clinical studies that enrolled 691 patients into two studies for ovulation induction (454 patients) and two studies for ART (237 patients). Adverse events occurring in more than 10% of patients were headache, ovarian cyst, nausea, and upper respiratory tract infection in the U.S. ovulation induction study and headache in the U.S. ART study. Adverse events (without regard to causality assessment) occurring in at least 2% of patients are listed in Table 13 and Table 14. Table 13: US Controlled Trial in Ovulation Induction, Study 5727 Body System Preferred Term Gonal-f(R) Patients (%) Experiencing Events Treatment cycles = 288up to 3 cycles of therapy n=118 Urofollitropin Patients (%) Experiencing Events Treatment cycles = 277 n= 114 Reproductive, Female Intermenstrual Bleeding 9.3% 4.4% Breast Pain Female 4.2% 6.1% Ovarian HyperstimulationSevere = 0.8% of 118 patients in Study 5727 6.8% 3.5% Dysmenorrhea 2.5% 6.1% Ovarian Disorder 1.7% 2.6% Cervix Lesion 2.5% 0.9% Menstrual Disorder 2.5% 0.9% Gastro-intestinal System Abdominal Pain 9.3% 12.3% Nausea 13.6% 3.5% Flatulence 6.8% 8.8% Diarrhea 7.6% 3.5% Vomiting 2.5% 2.6% Dyspepsia 1.7% 3.5% Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 22.0% 20.2% Dizziness 2.5% 0.0% Neoplasm Ovarian Cyst 15.3% 28.9% Body as a Whole- General Pain 5.9% 6.1% Back Pain 5.1% 1.8% Influenza-like Symptoms 4.2% 2.6% Fever 4.2% 1.8% Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 11.9% 7.9% Sinusitis 5.1% 5.3% Pharyngitis 2.5% 3.5% Coughing 1.7% 2.6% Rhinitis 0.8% 2.6% Skin and Appendages Acne 4.2% 2.6% Psychiatric Emotional Lability 5.1% 2.6% Urinary System Urinary Tract Infection 1.7% 4.4% Resistance Mechanism Moniliasis Genital 2.5% 0.9% Application Site Injection Site Pain 2.5% 0.9% Additional adverse events not listed in Table 13 that occurred in 1 to 2% of Gonal-f(R) treated patients in the US ovulation induction study included the following: leukorrhea, vaginal hemorrhage, migraine, fatigue, asthma, nervousness, somnolence, and hypotension. Table 14: US Controlled Trial in ART, Study 5533 Body System Preferred Term Gonal-f(R) Patients (%) Experiencing Events n=59 Urofollitropin Patients (%) Experiencing Events n= 61 Reproductive, Female Intermenstrual Bleeding 3.6% 5.2% Leukorrhea 1.7% 3.4% Vaginal Hemorrhage 3.6% 3.4% Gastro-intestinal System Nausea 5.4% 1.7% Flatulence 3.6% 0.0% Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 12.5% 3.4% Body as a Whole- General Abdominal Pain 8.9% 3.4% Pelvic Pain Female 7.1% 1.7% Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3.6% 1.7% Metabolic and Nutritional Weight Increase 3.6% 0.0% Additional adverse events not listed in Table 14 that occurred in 1 to 2% of Gonal-f(R) treated patients in the U.S. Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) study included the following: D&C following delivery or abortion, dysmenorrhea, vaginal hemorrhage, diarrhea, tooth disorder, vomiting, dizziness, paraesthesia, abdomen enlarged, chest pain, fatigue, dyspnea, anorexia, anxiety, somnolence, injection site inflammation, injection site reaction, pruritus, pruritus genital, myalgia, thirst, and palpitation. Two additional clinical studies (for ovulation induction and ART, respectively) were conducted in Europe. The safety profiles from these two studies were comparable to that of the data presented above. Gonal-f(R) Multi-Dose was examined in twenty-five healthy volunteers who received 300 IU each of Gonal-f(R) from single- dose ampules and multi-dose vials. Overall, both presentations were well tolerated and local tolerability between the two groups was comparable. Injection site inspections revealed very rare local reactions (mild redness in one patient after single-dose injection and mild bruising in two subjects after multi-dose injection). Subjective assessments indicated minimal or mild transient pain in two and five subjects who received Gonal-f(R) single-dose and Gonal-f(R) multi-dose, respectively. The following medical events have been reported subsequent to pregnancies resulting from gonadotropins in controlled clinical studies: Spontaneous Abortion Ectopic Pregnancy Premature Labor Postpartum Fever Congenital Abnormalities Two incidents of congenital cardiac malformations have been reported in children born following pregnancies resulting from treatment with Gonal-f(R) and hCG in Gonal-f(R) clinical studies 5642 and 5727. In addition, a pregnancy occurring in study 5533 following treatment with Gonal-f(R) and hCG was complicated by apparent failure of intrauterine growth and terminated for a suspected syndrome of congenital abnormalities. No specific diagnosis was made. The incidence does not exceed that found in the general population. The following adverse reactions have been previously reported during menotropin therapy: Pulmonary and vascular complications (see \\\\"Warnings\\\\"), Adnexal torsion (as a complication of ovarian enlargement), Mild to moderate ovarian enlargement, Hemoperitoneum There have been infrequent reports of ovarian neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women who have undergone multiple drug regimens for ovulation induction; however, a causal relationship has not been established. Men The safety of Gonal-f(R) was examined in 3 clinical studies that enrolled 72 patients for induction of spermatogenesis and fertility of whom 56 patients received Gonal-f(R). One hundred and twenty-three adverse events, including 7 serious events, were reported in 34 of the 56 patients during Gonal-f(R) treatment. In Study 5844, 21 adverse events, including 4 serious adverse events, were reported by 14 of the 26 patients (53.8%) treated with Gonal-f(R). Events occurring in more than one patient were varicocele (4) and injection site reactions (4). The 4 serious adverse events were testicular surgery for cryptorchidism, which existed prestudy, hemoptysis, an infected pilonidal cyst, and lymphadenopathy associated with an Epstein-Barr viral infection. In Study 6410, 3 adverse events were reported in 2 of the 8 patients (24%) treated with Gonal-f(R). One serious adverse event was reported, surgery for gynecomastia which existed at baseline. In the interim analysis of Study 6793, 18 of 22 patients (81.8%) reported a total of 99 adverse events during Gonal-f(R) treatment. The most common events of possible, probable, or definite relationship to study drug therapy occurring in more than 2 patients were: acne (25 events in 13 patients; 59% of patients); breast pain (4 events in 3 patients; 13.6% of patients); and fatigue, gynecomastia, and injection site pain (each of which was reported as 2 events by 2 patients; 9.1% of patients). Two serious adverse events (hospitalization for drug abuse and depression) were reported by a single patient in the interim analysis. A total of 12,026 injections of Gonal-f(R) were administered by the 56 patients who received Gonal-f(R) in Studies 5844, 6410, and 6793 combined. The injections were well-tolerated, with no or mild reactions (redness, swelling, bruising and itching) reported by patients for 93.3% of injections. Moderate and severe reactions, consisting primarily of pain, were reported for 4.8% of injections, and no self-assessment was available for 1.9% of injections. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been reported during postmarketing use of Gonal-f(R). Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, the frequency or a causal relationship to Gonal-f(R), can not be reliably determined. Body as a Whole - General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactoid reactions. Respiratory System: asthma"$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted (see PRECAUTIONS).",$$
"Drug Interactions No drug/drug interaction studies have been performed."$$
