"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and FROVA within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Myocardial ischemia/infarction or Prinzmetal's angina: Perform cardiac evaluation in patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (5.1) Arrhythmias:Discontinue frovatriptan succinate tablets if occurs (5.2) Chest/throat/neck/jaw pain, tightness, pressure, or heaviness:Generally not associated with myocardial ischemia; evaluate high risk patients for coronary artery disease (5.3) Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and stroke: Discontinue frovatriptan succinate tablets if occurs (5.4) Gastrointestinal ischemic reactions and peripheral vasospastic reactions: Discontinue frovatriptan succinate tablets if occurs (5.5) Medication overuse headache:Detoxification may be necessary (5.6) Serotonin syndrome:Discontinue frovatriptan succinate tablets if occurs (5.7, 7.3) 5.1 Myocardial Ischemia, Myocardial Infarction, and Prinzmetal's Angina Frovatriptan succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients with ischemic or vasospastic CAD. There have been rare reports of serious cardiac adverse reactions, including acute myocardial infarction, occurring within a few hours following administration of frovatriptan succinate tablets . Some of these reactions occurred in patients without known CAD. Frovatriptan succinate tablets may cause coronary artery vasospasm (Prinzmetal's angina), even in patients without a history of CAD. Perform a cardiovascular evaluation in triptan-naive patients who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) prior to receiving frovatriptan succinate tablets. Do not administer frovatriptan succinate tablets if there is evidence of CAD or coronary artery vasospasm [see Contraindications (4)]. For patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who have a negative cardiovascular evaluation, consider administrating the first frovatriptan succinate tablets dose in a medically-supervised setting and performing an electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately following frovatriptan succinate tablets administration. For such patients, consider periodic cardiovascular evaluation in intermittent long-term users of frovatriptan succinate tablets. 5.2 Arrhythmias Life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT1 agonists. Discontinue frovatriptan succinate tablets if these disturbances occur. Frovatriptan succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.3 Chest, Throat, Neck, and Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure Sensations of pain, tightness, pressure, and heaviness have been reported in the chest, throat, neck, and jaw after treatment with frovatriptan succinate tablets and are usually non-cardiac in origin. However, perform a cardiac evaluation if these patients are at high cardiac risk. The use of frovatriptan succinate tablets is contraindicated in patients with CAD and those with Prinzmetal's angina [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cerebrovascular Events Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, and some have resulted in fatalities. In a number of cases, it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary, the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine, when they were not. Before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs, and in migraineurs who present with symptoms atypical of migraine, other potentially serious neurological conditions need to be excluded. Frovatriptan succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke or TIA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.5 Other Vasospasm Reactions Frovatriptan succinate tablets, may cause non-coronary vasospastic reactions, such as peripheral vascular ischemia, gastrointestinal vascular ischemia and infarction (presenting with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea), splenic infarction, and Raynaud's syndrome. In patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of a vasospastic reaction following the use of any 5-HT1 agonist, rule out a vasospastic reaction before using frovatriptan succinate tablets [see Contraindications (4)]. Reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of 5-HT1 agonists. Since visual disorders may be part of a migraine attack, a causal relationship between these events and the use of 5-HT1 agonists have not been clearly established. 5.6 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs (e.g., ergotamine, triptans, opioids, or combination of these drugs for 10 or more days per month) may lead to exacerbation of headache (medication overuse headache). Medication overuse headache may present as migraine-like daily headaches or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks. Detoxification of patients, including withdrawal of the overused drugs, and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (which often includes a transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. 5.7 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with frovatriptan succinate tablets, particularly during co-administration with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication. Discontinue frovatriptan succinate tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. 5.8 Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems, has been reported on rare occasions in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, including patients without a history of hypertension. Monitor blood pressure in patients treated with frovatriptan succinate tablets. Frovatriptan succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.9 Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid Reactions There have been reports of anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid, and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema in patients receiving frovatriptan succinate tablets. Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal. In general, anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. Frovatriptan succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to frovatriptan succinate tablets [see Contraindications (4)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Myocardial ischemia/infarction or Prinzmetal's angina: Perform cardiac evaluation in patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors ( ) 5.1 Arrhythmias:Discontinue FROVA if occurs ( ) 5.2 Chest/throat/neck/jaw pain, tightness, pressure, or heaviness:Generally not associated with myocardial ischemia; evaluate high risk patients for coronary artery disease ( ) 5.3 Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and stroke: Discontinue FROVA if occurs ( ) 5.4 Gastrointestinal ischemic reactions and peripheral vasospastic reactions: Discontinue FROVA if occurs ( ) 5.5 Medication overuse headache:Detoxification may be necessary ( ) 5.6 Serotonin syndrome:Discontinue FROVA if occurs ( , ) 5.7 7.3 5.1 Myocardial Ischemia, Myocardial Infarction, and Prinzmetal's Angina FROVA is contraindicated in patients with ischemic or vasospastic CAD. There have been rare reports of serious cardiac adverse reactions, including acute myocardial infarction, occurring within a few hours following administration of FROVA. Some of these reactions occurred in patients without known CAD. FROVA may cause coronary artery vasospasm (Prinzmetal's angina), even in patients without a history of CAD. Perform a cardiovascular evaluation in triptan-naive patients who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) prior to receiving FROVA. Do not administer FROVA if there is evidence of CAD or coronary artery vasospasm [ ]. For patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who have a negative cardiovascular evaluation, consider administrating the first FROVA dose in a medically-supervised setting and performing an electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately following FROVA administration. For such patients, consider periodic cardiovascular evaluation in intermittent long-term users of FROVA. see Contraindications ( ) 4 5.2 Arrhythmias Life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT agonists. Discontinue FROVA if these disturbances occur. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders 1 [see Contraindications ( )]. 4 5.3 Chest, Throat, Neck, and Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure Sensations of pain, tightness, pressure, and heaviness have been reported in the chest, throat, neck, and jaw after treatment with FROVA and are usually non-cardiac in origin. However, perform a cardiac evaluation if these patients are at high cardiac risk. The use of FROVA is contraindicated in patients with CAD and those with Prinzmetal's angina [ ]. see Contraindications ( ) 4 5.4 Cerebrovascular Events Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5-HT agonists, and some have resulted in fatalities. In a number of cases, it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary, the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine, when they were not. 1 Before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs, and in migraineurs who present with symptoms atypical of migraine, other potentially serious neurological conditions need to be excluded. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke or TIA [see Contraindications ( )]. 4 5.5 Other Vasospasm Reactions FROVA, may cause non-coronary vasospastic reactions, such as peripheral vascular ischemia, gastrointestinal vascular ischemia and infarction (presenting with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea), splenic infarction, and Raynaud's syndrome. In patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of a vasospastic reaction following the use of any 5-HT agonist, rule out a vasospastic reaction before using FROVA [ ]. 1 see Contraindications ( ) 4 Reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of 5-HT agonists. Since visual disorders may be part of a migraine attack, a causal relationship between these events and the use of 5-HT agonists have not been clearly established. 1 1 5.6 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs (e.g., ergotamine, triptans, opioids, or combination of these drugs for 10 or more days per month) may lead to exacerbation of headache (medication overuse headache). Medication overuse headache may present as migraine-like daily headaches or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks. Detoxification of patients, including withdrawal of the overused drugs, and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (which often includes a transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. 5.7 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with FROVA, particularly during co-administration with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors [ ]. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication. Discontinue FROVA if serotonin syndrome is suspected. see Drug Interactions ( ) 7.3 5.8 Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems, has been reported on rare occasions in patients treated with 5-HT agonists, including patients without a history of hypertension. Monitor blood pressure in patients treated with FROVA. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension 1 [see Contraindications ( )]. 4 5.9 Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid Reactions There have been reports of anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid, and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema in patients receiving FROVA. Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal. In general, anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to FROVA [see Contraindications ( )]. 4"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Myocardial ischemia/infarction or Prinzmetal's angina: Perform cardiac evaluation in patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (5.1) Arrhythmias:Discontinue FROVA if occurs (5.2) Chest/throat/neck/jaw pain, tightness, pressure, or heaviness:Generally not associated with myocardial ischemia; evaluate high risk patients for coronary artery disease (5.3) Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and stroke: Discontinue FROVA if occurs (5.4) Gastrointestinal ischemic reactions and peripheral vasospastic reactions: Discontinue FROVA if occurs (5.5) Medication overuse headache:Detoxification may be necessary (5.6) Serotonin syndrome:Discontinue FROVA if occurs (5.7, 7.3) 5.1 Myocardial Ischemia, Myocardial Infarction, and Prinzmetal's Angina FROVA is contraindicated in patients with ischemic or vasospastic CAD. There have been rare reports of serious cardiac adverse reactions, including acute myocardial infarction, occurring within a few hours following administration of FROVA. Some of these reactions occurred in patients without known CAD. FROVA may cause coronary artery vasospasm (Prinzmetal's angina), even in patients without a history of CAD. Perform a cardiovascular evaluation in triptan-naive patients who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) prior to receiving FROVA. Do not administer FROVA if there is evidence of CAD or coronary artery vasospasm [see Contraindications (4)]. For patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who have a negative cardiovascular evaluation, consider administrating the first FROVA dose in a medically-supervised setting and performing an electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately following FROVA administration. For such patients, consider periodic cardiovascular evaluation in intermittent long-term users of FROVA. 5.2 Arrhythmias Life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT1 agonists. Discontinue FROVA if these disturbances occur. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.3 Chest, Throat, Neck, and Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure Sensations of pain, tightness, pressure, and heaviness have been reported in the chest, throat, neck, and jaw after treatment with FROVA and are usually non-cardiac in origin. However, perform a cardiac evaluation if these patients are at high cardiac risk. The use of FROVA is contraindicated in patients with CAD and those with Prinzmetal's angina [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cerebrovascular Events Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, and some have resulted in fatalities. In a number of cases, it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary, the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine, when they were not. Before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs, and in migraineurs who present with symptoms atypical of migraine, other potentially serious neurological conditions need to be excluded. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke or TIA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.5 Other Vasospasm Reactions FROVA, may cause non-coronary vasospastic reactions, such as peripheral vascular ischemia, gastrointestinal vascular ischemia and infarction (presenting with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea), splenic infarction, and Raynaud's syndrome. In patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of a vasospastic reaction following the use of any 5-HT1 agonist, rule out a vasospastic reaction before using FROVA [see Contraindications (4)]. Reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of 5-HT1 agonists. Since visual disorders may be part of a migraine attack, a causal relationship between these events and the use of 5-HT1 agonists have not been clearly established. 5.6 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs (e.g., ergotamine, triptans, opioids, or combination of these drugs for 10 or more days per month) may lead to exacerbation of headache (medication overuse headache). Medication overuse headache may present as migraine-like daily headaches or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks. Detoxification of patients, including withdrawal of the overused drugs, and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (which often includes a transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. 5.7 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with FROVA, particularly during co-administration with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication. Discontinue FROVA if serotonin syndrome is suspected. 5.8 Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems, has been reported on rare occasions in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, including patients without a history of hypertension. Monitor blood pressure in patients treated with FROVA. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.9 Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid Reactions There have been reports of anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid, and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema in patients receiving FROVA. Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal. In general, anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. FROVA is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to FROVA [see Contraindications (4)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Myocardial ischemia/infarction or Prinzmetal's angina: Perform cardiac evaluation in patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (5.1) -Arrhythmias: Discontinue frovatriptan if occurs (5.2) -Chest/throat/neck/jaw pain, tightness, pressure, or heaviness: Generally not associated with myocardial ischemia; evaluate high risk patients for coronary artery disease (5.3) -Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and stroke: Discontinue frovatriptan if occurs (5.4) -Gastrointestinal ischemic reactions and peripheral vasospastic reactions: Discontinue frovatriptan if occurs (5.5) -Medication overuse headache: Detoxification may be necessary (5.6) -Serotonin syndrome: Discontinue frovatriptan if occurs (5.7, 7.3) 5.1 Myocardial Ischemia, Myocardial Infarction, and Prinzmetal's Angina Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with ischemic or vasospastic CAD. There have been rare reports of serious cardiac adverse reactions, including acute myocardial infarction, occurring within a few hours following administration of frovatriptan. Some of these reactions occurred in patients without known CAD. Frovatriptan may cause coronary artery vasospasm (Prinzmetal's angina), even in patients without a history of CAD. Perform a cardiovascular evaluation in triptan-naive patients who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) prior to receiving frovatriptan. Do not administer frovatriptan if there is evidence of CAD or coronary artery vasospasm [see Contraindications (4)]. For patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who have a negative cardiovascular evaluation, consider administrating the first frovatriptan dose in a medically-supervised setting and performing an electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately following frovatriptan administration. For such patients, consider periodic cardiovascular evaluation in intermittent long-term users of frovatriptan. 5.2 Arrhythmias Life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT1 agonists. Discontinue frovatriptan if these disturbances occur. Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.3 Chest, Throat, Neck, and Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure Sensations of pain, tightness, pressure, and heaviness have been reported in the chest, throat, neck, and jaw after treatment with frovatriptan and are usually non-cardiac in origin. However, perform a cardiac evaluation if these patients are at high cardiac risk. The use of frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with CAD and those with Prinzmetal's angina [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cerebrovascular Events Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, and some have resulted in fatalities. In a number of cases, it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary, the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine, when they were not. Before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs, and in migraineurs who present with symptoms atypical of migraine, other potentially serious neurological conditions need to be excluded. Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke or TIA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.5 Other Vasospasm Reactions Frovatriptan may cause non-coronary vasospastic reactions, such as peripheral vascular ischemia, gastrointestinal vascular ischemia and infarction (presenting with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea), splenic infarction, and Raynaud's syndrome. In patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of a vasospastic reaction following the use of any 5-HT1 agonist, rule out a vasospastic reaction before using frovatriptan [see Contraindications (4)]. Reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of 5-HT1 agonists. Since visual disorders may be part of a migraine attack, a causal relationship between these events and the use of 5-HT1 agonists have not been clearly established. 5.6 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs (e.g., ergotamine, triptans, opioids, or combination of these drugs for ten or more days per month) may lead to exacerbation of headache (medication overuse headache). Medication overuse headache may present as migraine-like daily headaches or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks. Detoxification of patients, including withdrawal of the overused drugs, and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (which often includes a transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. 5.7 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with frovatriptan, particularly during co-administration with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication. Discontinue frovatriptan if serotonin syndrome is suspected. 5.8 Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems, has been reported on rare occasions in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, including patients without a history of hypertension. Monitor blood pressure in patients treated with frovatriptan. Frovatriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.9 Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid Reactions There have been reports of anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid, and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema in patients receiving frovatriptan. Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal. In general, anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. Frovatriptan succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to frovatriptan [see Contraindications (4)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Myocardial ischemia/infarction or Prinzmetal's angina: Perform cardiac evaluation in patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (5.1) -Arrhythmias: Discontinue frovatriptan succinate if occurs (5.2) -Chest/throat/neck/jaw pain, tightness, pressure, or heaviness: Generally not associated with myocardial ischemia; evaluate high risk patients for coronary artery disease (5.3) -Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and stroke: Discontinue frovatriptan succinate if occurs (5.4) -Gastrointestinal ischemic reactions and peripheral vasospastic reactions: Discontinue frovatriptan succinate if occurs (5.5) -Medication overuse headache: Detoxification may be necessary (5.6) -Serotonin syndrome: Discontinue frovatriptan succinate if occurs (5.7, 7.3) 5.1 Myocardial Ischemia, Myocardial Infarction, and Prinzmetal's Angina Frovatriptan succinate is contraindicated in patients with ischemic or vasospastic CAD. There have been rare reports of serious cardiac adverse reactions, including acute myocardial infarction, occurring within a few hours following administration of frovatriptan succinate. Some of these reactions occurred in patients without known CAD. Frovatriptan succinate may cause coronary artery vasospasm (Prinzmetal's angina), even in patients without a history of CAD. Perform a cardiovascular evaluation in triptan-naive patients who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) prior to receiving frovatriptan succinate. Do not administer Frovatriptan succinate if there is evidence of CAD or coronary artery vasospasm [see Contraindications (4)]. For patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who have a negative cardiovascular evaluation, consider administrating the first frovatriptan succinate dose in a medically-supervised setting and performing an electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately following frovatriptan succinate administration. For such patients, consider periodic cardiovascular evaluation in intermittent long-term users of frovatriptan succinate. 5.2 Arrhythmias Life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT1 agonists. Discontinue frovatriptan succinate if these disturbances occur. Frovatriptan succinate is contraindicated in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.3 Chest, Throat, Neck, and Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure Sensations of pain, tightness, pressure, and heaviness have been reported in the chest, throat, neck, and jaw after treatment with frovatriptan succinate and are usually non-cardiac in origin. However, perform a cardiac evaluation if these patients are at high cardiac risk. The use of frovatriptan succinate is contraindicated in patients with CAD and those with Prinzmetal's angina [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cerebrovascular Events Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, and some have resulted in fatalities. In a number of cases, it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary, the agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine, when they were not. Before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs, and in migraineurs who present with symptoms atypical of migraine, other potentially serious neurological conditions need to be excluded. Frovatriptan succinate is contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke or TIA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.5 Other Vasospasm Reactions Frovatriptan succinate, may cause non-coronary vasospastic reactions, such as peripheral vascular ischemia, gastrointestinal vascular ischemia and infarction (presenting with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea), splenic infarction, and Raynaud's syndrome. In patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of a vasospastic reaction following the use of any 5-HT1 agonist, rule out a vasospastic reaction before using frovatriptan succinate [see Contraindications (4)]. Reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of 5-HT1 agonists. Since visual disorders may be part of a migraine attack, a causal relationship between these events and the use of 5-HT1 agonists have not been clearly established. 5.6 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs (e.g., ergotamine, triptans, opioids, or combination of these drugs for 10 or more days per month) may lead to exacerbation of headache (medication overuse headache). Medication overuse headache may present as migraine-like daily headaches or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks. Detoxification of patients, including withdrawal of the overused drugs, and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (which often includes a transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. 5.7 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with frovatriptan succinate, particularly during co-administration with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication. Discontinue frovatriptan succinate if serotonin syndrome is suspected. 5.8 Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems, has been reported on rare occasions in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, including patients without a history of hypertension. Monitor blood pressure in patients treated with frovatriptan succinate. Frovatriptan succinate is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.9 Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid Reactions There have been reports of anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid, and hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema in patients receiving frovatriptan succinate. Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal. In general, anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. Frovatriptan succinate is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to frovatriptan succinate [see Contraindications (4)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in other sections of the labeling: Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Chest, throat, neck and/or jaw pain/tightness/pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Cerebrovascular events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Other vasospasm reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Medication overuse headache [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Increases in blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hypersensitivity reactions [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Most common adverse reactions (>=2% and >placebo) were dizziness, headache, paresthesia, dry mouth, dyspepsia, fatigue, hot or cold sensation, chest pain, skeletal pain, and flushing (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-800-462-3636 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. FROVA was evaluated in four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, short-term trials. These trials involved 2392 patients (1554 on FROVA 2.5 mg and 838 on placebo). In these short-term trials, patients were predominately female (88%) and Caucasian (94%) with a mean age of 42 years (range 18 - 69).The treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred most frequently following administration of FROVA 2.5 mg (i.e., in at least 2% of patients), and at an incidence >=1% greater than with placebo, were dizziness, paresthesia, headache, dry mouth, fatigue, flushing, hot or cold sensation, dyspepsia, skeletal pain, and chest pain. In a long term, open-label study where 496 patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks with FROVA 2.5 mg for up to 1 year, 5% of patients (n=26) discontinued due to treatment-emergent adverse events. Table 1 lists treatment-emergent adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration that occurred with FROVA 2.5 mg at an incidence of >=2% and more often than on placebo, in the four placebo-controlled trials. The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these incidence estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 1 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Reported within 48 Hours (Incidence >= 2% and Greater Than Placebo) of Patients in Four Pooled Placebo-Controlled Migraine Trials Adverse events FROVA 2.5 mg (n=1554) Placebo (n=838) Central & peripheral nervous system Dizziness Headache Paresthesia 8% 4% 4% 5% 3% 2% Gastrointestinal system disorders Dry mouth Dyspepsia 3% 2% 1% 1% Body as a whole - general disorders Fatigue Hot or cold sensation Chest pain 5% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1% Musculo-skeletal Skeletal pain 3% 2% Vascular Flushing 4% 2% The incidence of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to 3 doses were used within 24 hours. The incidence of adverse events in placebo-controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender, age or concomitant medications commonly used by migraine patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Association with the Administration of FROVA The incidence of frequently reported adverse events in four placebo-controlled trials are presented below. Events are further classified within body system categories. Frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients. Central and peripheral nervous system: dysesthesia and hypoesthesia. Gastrointestinal: vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Body as a whole: pain. Psychiatric: insomnia and anxiety. Respiratory: sinusitis and rhinitis. Vision disorders : vision abnormal. Skin and appendages: sweating increased. Hearing and vestibular disorders: tinnitus. Heart rate and rhythm: palpitation. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions were identified during post approval use of FROVA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Central and peripheral nervous system: Seizure."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in other sections of the labeling: -Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Chest, throat, neck and/or jaw pain/tightness/pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Cerebrovascular events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Other vasospasm reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Medication overuse headache [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Increases in blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Hypersensitivity reactions [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Most common adverse reactions (>=2% and >placebo) were dizziness, headache, paresthesia, dry mouth, dyspepsia, fatigue, hot or cold sensation, chest pain, skeletal pain, and flushing (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA at 1(888)721-7115 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Frovatriptan succinate was evaluated in four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, short-term trials. These trials involved 2392 patients (1554 on frovatriptan 2.5 mg and 838 on placebo). In these short-term trials, patients were predominately female (88%) and Caucasian (94%) with a mean age of 42 years (range 18 - 69).The treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred most frequently following administration of frovatriptan 2.5 mg (i.e., in at least 2% of patients), and at an incidence >=1% greater than with placebo, were dizziness, paresthesia, headache, dry mouth, fatigue, flushing, hot or cold sensation, dyspepsia, skeletal pain, and chest pain. In a long term, open-label study where 496 patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks with frovatriptan 2.5 mg for up to 1 year, 5% of patients (n=26) discontinued due to treatment-emergent adverse events. Table 1 lists treatment-emergent adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration that occurred with frovatriptan 2.5 mg at an incidence of >=2% and more often than on placebo, in the four placebo-controlled trials. The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these incidence estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 1 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Reported within 48 Hours (Incidence >=2% and Greater Than Placebo) of Patients in Four Pooled Placebo-Controlled Migraine Trials Adverse events Frovatriptan 2.5 mg (n=1554) Placebo (n=838) Central & peripheral nervous system Dizziness Headache Paresthesia 8% 4% 4% 5% 3% 2% Gastrointestinal system disorders Dry Mouth Dyspepsia 3% 2% 1% 1% Body as a whole - general disorders Fatigue Hot or cold sensation Chest pain 5% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1% Musculo-skeletal Skeletal pain 3% 2% Vascular Flushing 4% 2% The incidence of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to 3 doses were used within 24 hours. The incidence of adverse events in placebo-controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender, age or concomitant medications commonly used by migraine patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Association with the Administration of Frovatriptan Succinate The incidence of frequently reported adverse events in four placebo-controlled trials are presented below. Events are further classified within body system categories. Frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients. Central and peripheral nervous system: dysesthesia and hypoesthesia. Gastrointestinal: vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Body as a whole: pain. Psychiatric: insomnia and anxiety. Respiratory: sinusitis and rhinitis. Vision disorders: vision abnormal. Skin and appendages: sweating increased. Hearing and vestibular disorders: tinnitus. Heart rate and rhythm: palpitation. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions were identified during post approval use of frovatriptan succinate. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Central and peripheral nervous system: Seizure."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in other sections of the labeling: -Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Chest, throat, neck and/or jaw pain/tightness/pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Cerebrovascular events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Other vasospasm reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Medication overuse headache [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Increases in blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Hypersensitivity reactions [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Most common adverse reactions (>= 2% and > placebo) were dizziness, headache, paresthesia, dry mouth, dyspepsia, fatigue, hot or cold sensation, chest pain, skeletal pain, and flushing (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Frovatriptan was evaluated in four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, short-term trials. These trials involved 2,392 patients (1,554 on frovatriptan 2.5 mg and 838 on placebo). In these short-term trials, patients were predominately female (88%) and Caucasian (94%) with a mean age of 42 years (range 18 to 69).The treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred most frequently following administration of frovatriptan 2.5 mg (i.e., in at least 2% of patients), and at an incidence >= 1% greater than with placebo, were dizziness, paresthesia, headache, dry mouth, fatigue, flushing, hot or cold sensation, dyspepsia, skeletal pain, and chest pain. In a long term, open-label study where 496 patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks with frovatriptan 2.5 mg for up to one year, 5% of patients (n = 26) discontinued due to treatment-emergent adverse events. Table 1 lists treatment-emergent adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration that occurred with frovatriptan 2.5 mg at an incidence of >= 2% and more often than on placebo, in the four placebo-controlled trials. The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these incidence estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 1. Treatment-emergent Adverse Events Reported within 48 Hours (Incidence >= 2% and Greater Than Placebo) of Patients in Four Pooled Placebo-controlled Migraine Trials Adverse Events Frovatriptan 2.5 mg (n = 1,554) Placebo (n = 838) Central & peripheral nervous system Dizziness 8% 5% Headache 4% 3% Paresthesia 4% 2% Gastrointestinal system disorders Dry mouth 3% 1% Dyspepsia 2% 1% Body as a whole - general disorders Fatigue 5% 2% Hot or cold sensation 3% 2% Chest pain 2% 1% Musculoskeletal Skeletal pain 3% 2% Vascular Flushing 4% 2% The incidence of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to three doses were used within 24 hours. The incidence of adverse events in placebo-controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender, age or concomitant medications commonly used by migraine patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Association with the Administration of Frovatriptan The incidence of frequently reported adverse events in four placebo-controlled trials are presented below. Events are further classified within body system categories. Frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: dysesthesia and hypoesthesia. Gastrointestinal: vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Body as a Whole: pain. Psychiatric: insomnia and anxiety. Respiratory: sinusitis and rhinitis. Vision Disorders: vision abnormal. Skin and Appendages: sweating increased. Hearing and Vestibular Disorders: tinnitus. Heart Rate and Rhythm: palpitation. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions were identified during post approval use of frovatriptan. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Seizure"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in other sections of the labeling: Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Chest, throat, neck and/or jaw pain/tightness/pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Cerebrovascular events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Other vasospasm reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Medication overuse headache [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Increases in blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hypersensitivity reactions [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Most common adverse reactions (>=2% and >placebo) were dizziness, headache, paresthesia, dry mouth, dyspepsia, fatigue, hot or cold sensation, chest pain, skeletal pain, and flushing (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Qualitest Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-444-4011 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Frovatriptan succinate tablets were evaluated in four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, short-term trials. These trials involved 2392 patients (1554 on frovatriptan succinate tablets 2.5 mg and 838 on placebo). In these short-term trials, patients were predominately female (88%) and Caucasian (94%) with a mean age of 42 years (range 18 - 69).The treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred most frequently following administration of frovatriptan succinate tablets 2.5 mg (i.e., in at least 2% of patients), and at an incidence >=1% greater than with placebo, were dizziness, paresthesia, headache, dry mouth, fatigue, flushing, hot or cold sensation, dyspepsia, skeletal pain, and chest pain. In a long term, open-label study where 496 patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks with frovatriptan succinate tablets 2.5 mg for up to 1 year, 5% of patients (n=26) discontinued due to treatment-emergent adverse events. Table 1 lists treatment-emergent adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration that occurred with frovatriptan succinate tablets 2.5 mg at an incidence of >=2% and more often than on placebo, in the four placebo-controlled trials. The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these incidence estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 1 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Reported within 48 Hours (Incidence >= 2% and Greater Than Placebo) of Patients in Four Pooled Placebo-Controlled Migraine Trials Adverse events frovatriptan succinate tablets 2.5 mg (n=1554) Placebo (n=838) Central & peripheral nervous system Dizziness Headache Paresthesia 8% 4% 4% 5% 3% 2% Gastrointestinal system disorders Dry mouth Dyspepsia 3% 2% 1% 1% Body as a whole - general disorders Fatigue Hot or cold sensation Chest pain 5% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1% Musculo-skeletal Skeletal pain 3% 2% Vascular Flushing 4% 2% The incidence of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to 3 doses were used within 24 hours. The incidence of adverse events in placebo-controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender, age or concomitant medications commonly used by migraine patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Association with the Administration of frovatriptan succinate tablets The incidence of frequently reported adverse events in four placebo-controlled trials are presented below. Events are further classified within body system categories. Frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients. Central and peripheral nervous system: dysesthesia and hypoesthesia. Gastrointestinal: vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Body as a whole: pain. Psychiatric: insomnia and anxiety. Respiratory: sinusitis and rhinitis. Vision disorders : vision abnormal. Skin and appendages: sweating increased. Hearing and vestibular disorders: tinnitus. Heart rate and rhythm: palpitation. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions were identified during post approval use of frovatriptan succinate tablets. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Central and peripheral nervous system: Seizure."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described elsewhere in other sections of the labeling: Myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, and Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.1 Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.2 Chest, throat, neck and/or jaw pain/tightness/pressure [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.3 Cerebrovascular events [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.4 Other vasospasm reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.5 Medication overuse headache [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.6 Serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.7 Increases in blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.8 Hypersensitivity reactions [see Contraindications ( ) and Warnings and Precautions ( )] 4 5.8 Most common adverse reactions (>=2% and >placebo) were dizziness, headache, paresthesia, dry mouth, dyspepsia, fatigue, hot or cold sensation, chest pain, skeletal pain, and flushing ( ) 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-800-462-3636 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. FROVA was evaluated in four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, short-term trials. These trials involved 2392 patients (1554 on FROVA 2.5 mg and 838 on placebo). In these short-term trials, patients were predominately female (88%) and Caucasian (94%) with a mean age of 42 years (range 18 - 69).The treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred most frequently following administration of FROVA 2.5 mg ( in at least 2% of patients), and at an incidence >=1% greater than with placebo, were dizziness, paresthesia, headache, dry mouth, fatigue, flushing, hot or cold sensation, dyspepsia, skeletal pain, and chest pain. In a long term, open-label study where 496 patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks with FROVA 2.5 mg for up to 1 year, 5% of patients (n=26) discontinued due to treatment-emergent adverse events. i.e., Table 1 lists treatment-emergent adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration that occurred with FROVA 2.5 mg at an incidence of >=2% and more often than on placebo, in the four placebo-controlled trials. The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these incidence estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 1 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Reported within 48 Hours (Incidence >= 2% and Greater Than Placebo) of Patients in Four Pooled Placebo-Controlled Migraine Trials Adverse events FROVA 2.5 mg (n=1554) Placebo (n=838) Central & peripheral nervous system Dizziness Headache Paresthesia 8% 4% 4% 5% 3% 2% Gastrointestinal system disorders Dry mouth Dyspepsia 3% 2% 1% 1% Body as a whole - general disorders Fatigue Hot or cold sensation Chest pain 5% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1% Musculo-skeletal Skeletal pain 3% 2% Vascular Flushing 4% 2% The incidence of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to 3 doses were used within 24 hours. The incidence of adverse events in placebo-controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender, age or concomitant medications commonly used by migraine patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Association with the Administration of FROVA The incidence of frequently reported adverse events in four placebo-controlled trials are presented below. Events are further classified within body system categories. Frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients. dysesthesia and hypoesthesia. Central and peripheral nervous system: vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Gastrointestinal: pain. Body as a whole: insomnia and anxiety. Psychiatric: sinusitis and rhinitis. Respiratory: vision abnormal. Vision disorders : sweating increased. Skin and appendages: tinnitus. Hearing and vestibular disorders: palpitation. Heart rate and rhythm: 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions were identified during post approval use of FROVA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. : Seizure. Central and peripheral nervous system"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and frovatriptan succinate tablets within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.2 5-HT1B/1D Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of frovatriptan succinate tablets and other 5-HT1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.3 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and frovatriptan succinate within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.2 5-HT1B/1D Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of frovatriptan succinate and other 5-HT1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.3 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and frovatriptan within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.2 5-HT 1B/1D Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of frovatriptan and other 5-HT1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.3 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and FROVA within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.2 5-HT1B/1D Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of FROVA and other 5-HT1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. 7.3 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and FROVA within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [ ]. see Contraindications ( ) 4 7.2 5-HT Agonists 1B/1D Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of FROVA and other 5-HT agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [ ]. 1 see Contraindications ( ) 4 7.3 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [ ]. see Warnings and Precautions ( ) 5.7"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious cardiac events, including some that have been fatal, have occurred following use of 5-HT1 agonists. These events are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD. Events reported have included coronary artery vasospasm, transient myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS). Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials: Among 1554 patients treated with FROVA in four placebo-controlled trials (Trials 1, 3, 4 and 5 in Table 1), only 1% (16) patients withdrew because of treatment-emergent adverse events. In a long term, open-label study where patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks with FROVA for up to 1 year, 5% (26/496) patients discontinued due to treatment-emergent adverse events. The treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred most frequently following administration of frovatriptan 2.5 mg (i.e., in at least 2% of patients), and at an incidence >=1% greater than with placebo, in the four placebo-controlled trials were dizziness, paresthesia, headache, dry mouth, fatigue, flushing, hot or cold sensation and chest pain. Table 2 lists treatment-emergent adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration that occurred with frovatriptan 2.5 mg at an incidence of >= 2% and more often than on placebo, in the first attack in four placebo-controlled trials (Trials 1, 3, 4 and 5 in Table 1). These studies involved 2392 patients (1554 frovatriptan 2.5 mg and 838 placebo). The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these incidence estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 2: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Incidence >= 2% and Greater Than Placebo) of Patients in Four Placebo-Controlled Migraine Trials Adverse events Frovatriptan 2.5 mg (n=1554) Placebo (n=838) Central & peripheral nervous system Dizziness Headache Paresthesia 8% 4% 4% 5% 3% 2% Gastrointestinal system disorders Mouth dry Dyspepsia 3% 2% 1% 1% Body as a whole - general disorders Fatigue Hot or cold sensation Chest pain 5% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1% Musculo-skeletal Skeletal pain 3% 2% Vascular Flushing 4% 2% Other events that occurred at >=2% on frovatriptan that were equally or more common in the placebo group were somnolence and nausea. FROVA is generally well tolerated. The incidence of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to 3 doses were used within 24 hours. The majority of adverse events were mild or moderate and transient. The incidence of adverse events in four placebo-controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender, age or concomitant medications commonly used by migraine patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Association with FROVA: In the paragraphs that follow, the incidence of less commonly reported adverse events in four placebo-controlled trials are presented. Variability associated with adverse event reporting, the terminology used to describe adverse events etc, limit the value of the incidence estimates provided. The incidence of each adverse event is calculated as the number of patients reporting the event at least once divided by the number of patients who used FROVA. All adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration in the first attack in four placebo controlled trials involving 2392 patients (1554 frovatriptan 2.5 mg and 838 placebo) are included, except those already listed in Table 2, those too general to be informative, those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug and those which occurred at the same or a greater incidence in the placebo group. Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions: frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients, infrequent adverse events are those occurring in between 1/100 and 1/1000 patients, and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1/1000 patients. Central and peripheral nervous system: Frequent: dysesthesia and hypoesthesia. Infrequent: tremor, hyperesthesia, migraine aggravated, involuntary muscle contractions, vertigo, ataxia, abnormal gait and speech disorder. Rare: hypertonia, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and tongue paralysis. Gastrointestinal: Frequent: vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Infrequent: dysphagia, flatulence, constipation, anorexia, esophagospasm and saliva increased. Rare: change in bowel habits, cheilitis, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux, hiccup, peptic ulcer, salivary gland pain, stomatitis and toothache. Body as a whole: Frequent: pain. Infrequent: asthenia, rigors, fever, hot flushes and malaise. Rare: feeling of relaxation, leg pain and edema mouth. Psychiatric: Frequent: insomnia and anxiety. Infrequent: confusion, nervousness, agitation, euphoria, impaired concentration, depression, emotional lability, amnesia, thinking abnormal and depersonalization. Rare: depression aggravated, abnormal dreaming and personality disorder. Musculoskeletal: Infrequent: myalgia, back pain, arthralgia, arthrosis, leg cramps and muscle weakness. Respiratory: Frequent: sinusitis and rhinitis. Infrequent: pharyngitis, dyspnea, hyperventilation and laryngitis. Vision disorders: Frequent: vision abnormal. Infrequent: eye pain, conjunctivitis and abnormal lacrimation. Skin and appendages: Frequent: sweating increased. Infrequent: pruritis, and bullous eruption. Hearing and vestibular disorders: Frequent: tinnitus. Infrequent: ear ache, and hyperacusis. Heart rate and rhythm: Frequent: palpitation. Infrequent: tachycardia. Rare: bradycardia. Metabolic and nutritional disorders: Infrequent: thirst and dehydration. Rare: hypocalcemia and hypoglycemia. Special senses, other disorders: Infrequent: taste perversion. Urinary system disorders: Infrequent: micturition frequency and polyuria. Rare: nocturia, renal pain and abnormal urine. Cardiovascular disorders, general: Infrequent: abnormal ECG. Platelet, bleeding and clotting disorders: Infrequent: epistaxis. Rare: purpura. Autonomic nervous system: Rare: syncope. Postmarketing Experience Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency. Information is often incomplete so that a definite causal relationship to drug exposure can often not be established. Central and peripheral nervous system: Seizure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious cardiac events, including some that have been fatal, have occurred following use of 5-HT1 agonists. These events are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD. Events reported have included coronary artery vasospasm, transient myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS). Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials: Among 1554 patients treated with FROVA in four placebo-controlled trials (Trials 1, 3, 4 and 5 in Table 1), only 1% (16) patients withdrew because of treatment-emergent adverse events. In a long term, open-label study where patients were allowed to treat multiple migraine attacks with FROVA for up to 1 year, 5% (26/496) patients discontinued due to treatment-emergent adverse events. The treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred most frequently following administration of frovatriptan 2.5 mg (i.e., in at least 2% of patients), and at an incidence greater than or equal to 1% greater than with placebo, in the four placebo-controlled trials were dizziness, paresthesia, headache, dry mouth, fatigue, flushing, hot or cold sensation and chest pain. Table 2 lists treatment-emergent adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration that occurred with frovatriptan 2.5 mg at an incidence of >= 2% and more often than on placebo, in the first attack in four placebo-controlled trials (Trials 1, 3, 4 and 5 in Table 1). These studies involved 2392 patients (1554 frovatriptan 2.5 mg and 838 placebo). The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these incidence estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ Other events that occurred at >=2% on frovatriptan that were equally or more common in the placebo group were somnolence and nausea. FROVA is generally well tolerated. The incidence of adverse events in clinical trials did not increase when up to 3 doses were used within 24 hours. The majority of adverse events were mild or moderate and transient. The incidence of adverse events in four placebo-controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender, age or concomitant medications commonly used by migraine patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Association with FROVA: In the paragraphs that follow, the incidence of less commonly reported adverse events in four placebo-controlled trials are presented. Variability associated with adverse event reporting, the terminology used to describe adverse events etc, limit the value of the incidence estimates provided. The incidence of each adverse event is calculated as the number of patients reporting the event at least once divided by the number of patients who used FROVA. All adverse events reported within 48 hours of drug administration in the first attack in four placebo controlled trials involving 2392 patients (1554 frovatriptan 2.5 mg and 838 placebo) are included, except those already listed in Table 2, those too general to be informative, those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug and those which occurred at the same or a greater incidence in the placebo group. Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions: frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients, infrequent adverse events are those occurring in between 1/100 and 1/1000 patients, and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1/1000 patients. Central and peripheral nervous system: Frequent: dysesthesia and hypoesthesia. Infrequent: tremor, hyperesthesia, migraine aggravated, involuntary muscle contractions, vertigo, ataxia, abnormal gait and speech disorder. Rare: hypertonia, hypotonia, abnormal reflexes and tongue paralysis. Gastrointestinal: Frequent: vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Infrequent: dysphagia, flatulence, constipation, anorexia, esophagospasm and saliva increased. Rare: change in bowel habits, cheilitis, eructation, gastroesophageal reflux, hiccup, peptic ulcer, salivary gland pain, stomatitis and toothache. Body as a whole: Frequent: pain. Infrequent: asthenia, rigors, fever, hot flushes and malaise. Rare: feeling of relaxation, leg pain and edema mouth. Psychiatric: Frequent: insomnia and anxiety. Infrequent: confusion, nervousness, agitation, euphoria, impaired concentration, depression, emotional lability, amnesia, thinking abnormal and depersonalization. Rare: depression aggravated, abnormal dreaming and personality disorder. Musculoskeletal: Infrequent: myalgia, back pain, arthralgia, arthrosis, leg cramps and muscle weakness. Respiratory: Frequent: sinusitis and rhinitis. Infrequent: pharyngitis, dyspnea, hyperventilation and laryngitis. Vision disorders: Frequent: vision abnormal. Infrequent: eye pain, conjunctivitis and abnormal lacrimation. Skin and appendages: Frequent: sweating increased. Infrequent: pruritis, and bullous eruption. Hearing and vestibular disorders: Frequent: tinnitus. Infrequent: ear ache, and hyperacusis. Heart rate and rhythm: Frequent: palpitation. Infrequent: tachycardia. Rare: bradycardia. Metabolic and nutritional disorders: Infrequent: thirst and dehydration. Rare: hypocalcemia and hypoglycemia. Special senses, other disorders: Infrequent: taste perversion. Urinary system disorders: Infrequent: micturition frequency and polyuria. Rare: nocturia, renal pain and abnormal urine. Cardiovascular disorders, general: Infrequent: abnormal ECG. Platelet, bleeding and clotting disorders: Infrequent: epistaxis. Rare: purpura. Autonomic nervous system: Rare: syncope. Postmarketing Experience Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency. Information is often incomplete so that a definite causal relationship to drug exposure can often not be established. Central and peripheral nervous system: Seizure"$$
"Drug Interactions (see also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions) Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Due to a theoretical risk of a pharmacodynamic interaction, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and FROVA within 24 hours of each other should be avoided (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Concomitant use of other 5HT1B/1D agonists within 24 hours of FROVA treatment is not recommended (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome: Cases of life-threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) and triptans. (See WARNINGS)."$$
