"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Congestive heart failure: Fluid retention may occur and can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms. (5.1) -Hypoglycemia: May be severe. When insulin or an insulin secretagogue is used with pioglitazone, a lower dose of the insulin or insulin secretagogue may be needed to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.2) -Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports for glimepiride, a component of DUETACT, include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue DUETACT, assess for other cases, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.3) -Potential increased risk of cardiovascular mortality with sulfonylureas: Inform patients of risk, benefits, and treatment alternatives. (5.4) -Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt DUETACT and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart DUETACT if liver injury is confirmed and no alternate etiology can be found. (5.5) -Bladder cancer: Preclinical and clinical trial data, and results from an observational study suggest an increased risk of bladder cancer in pioglitazone users. The observational data further suggest that the risk increases with duration of use. Do not use in patients with active bladder cancer. Use caution when using in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer (5.6) -Edema: Dose-related edema may occur. (5.7) -Fractures: Increased incidence in female patients. Apply current standards of care for assessing and maintaining bone health. (5.8) -Hemolytic anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phophate dehydrogenase (GP6D) deficient. Use with caution in patients with GP6D deficiency. (5.9) -Macular edema: Postmarketing reports. Recommend regular eye exams in all patients with diabetes according to current standards of care with prompt evaluation for acute visual changes. (5.10) -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with DUETACT or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.12) 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure Pioglitazone Pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, can cause dose-related fluid retention when used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications and is most common when DUETACT is used in combination with insulin. Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate congestive heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure. If congestive heart failure develops, it should be managed according to current standards of care and discontinuation or dose reduction of DUETACT must be considered [see Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.2 Hypoglycemia Glimepiride All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, a component of DUETACT, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing DUETACT doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other antidiabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Glimepiride There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, a component of DUETACT, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue DUETACT, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.4 Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas Glimepiride The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2.5 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride tablets and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Hepatic Effects Pioglitazone There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking pioglitazone, although the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause. There has been no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Patients with type 2 diabetes may have fatty liver disease or cardiac disease with episodic congestive heart failure, both of which may cause liver test abnormalities, and they may also have other forms of liver disease, many of which can be treated or managed. Therefore, obtaining a liver test panel (serum alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin) and assessing the patient is recommended before initiating DUETACT therapy. In patients with abnormal liver tests, DUETACT should be initiated with caution. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have abnormal liver tests (ALT greater than 3 times the upper limit of the reference range), DUETACT treatment should be interrupted and investigation done to establish the probable cause. DUETACT should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. Patients who have serum ALT greater than three times the reference range with serum total bilirubin greater than two times the reference range without alternative etiologies are at risk for severe drug-induced liver injury and should not be restarted on DUETACT. For patients with lesser elevations of serum ALT or bilirubin and with an alternate probable cause, treatment with DUETACT can be used with caution. 5.6 Urinary Bladder Tumors Pioglitazone Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. A five-year interim report of an ongoing 10-year observational cohort study found a non-significant increase in the risk for bladder cancer in subjects ever exposed to pioglitazone, compared to subjects never exposed to pioglitazone (HR 1.2 [95% CI 0.9 \\342\\210\\2221.5]). Compared to never exposure, a duration of pioglitazone therapy longer than 12 months was associated with an increase in risk (HR 1.4 [95% CI 0.9 \\342\\210\\2222.1]), which reached statistical significance after more than 24 months of pioglitazone use (HR 1.4 [95% CI 1.03 \\342\\210\\2222.0]). Interim results from this study suggested that taking pioglitazone longer than 12 months increased the relative risk of developing bladder cancer in any given year by 40% which equates to an absolute increase of three cases in 10,000 (from approximately seven in 10,000 [without pioglitazone] to approximately 10 in 10,000 [with pioglitazone]). There are insufficient data to determine whether pioglitazone is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors. Consequently, DUETACT should not be used in patients with active bladder cancer and the benefits of glycemic control versus unknown risks for cancer recurrence with DUETACT should be considered in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. 5.7 Edema Pioglitazone In controlled clinical trials, edema was reported more frequently in patients treated with pioglitazone than in placebo-treated patients and is dose-related [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. In postmarketing experience, reports of new onset or worsening edema have been received. DUETACT should be used with caution in patients with edema. Because thiazolidinediones, including pioglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, DUETACT should be used with caution in patients at risk for congestive heart failure. Patients treated with DUETACT should be monitored for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.8 Fractures Pioglitazone In PROactive (the Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events), 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. During a mean follow-up of 34.5 months, the incidence of bone fracture in females was 5.1% (44/870) for pioglitazone versus 2.5% (23/905) for placebo. This difference was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the study. The majority of fractures observed in female patients were nonvertebral fractures including lower limb and distal upper limb. No increase in the incidence of fracture was observed in men treated with pioglitazone (1.7%) versus placebo (2.1%). The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients, especially female patients, treated with DUETACT and attention should be given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.9 Hemolytic Anemia Glimepiride Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because DUETACT contains glimepiride, which belongs to the class of sulfonylurea agents, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a nonsulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.10 Macular Edema Pioglitazone Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in diabetic patients who were taking pioglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but others were diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of the thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist according to current standards of care. Patients with diabetes who report any visual symptoms should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient's underlying medications or other physical findings [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.11 Ovulation Pioglitazone Therapy with pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking DUETACT [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. This effect has not been investigated in clinical trials, so the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Adequate contraception in all premenopausal women treated with DUETACT is recommended. 5.12 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with DUETACT or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Congestive heart failure: Fluid retention may occur and can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms. (5.1) -Hypoglycemia: May be severe. When insulin or an insulin secretagogue is used with pioglitazone, a lower dose of the insulin or insulin secretagogue may be needed to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.2) -Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports for glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, assess for other cases, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.3) -Potential increased risk of cardiovascular mortality with sulfonylureas: Inform patients of risk, benefits, and treatment alternatives. (5.4) -Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets if liver injury is confirmed and no alternate etiology can be found. (5.5) -Bladder cancer: Preclinical and clinical trial data, and results from an observational study suggest an increased risk of bladder cancer in pioglitazone users. The observational data further suggest that the risk increases with duration of use. Do not use in patients with active bladder cancer. Use caution when using in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. (5.6) -Edema: Dose-related edema may occur. (5.7) -Fractures: Increased incidence in female patients. Apply current standards of care for assessing and maintaining bone health. (5.8) -Hemolytic anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phophate dehydrogenase (GP6D) deficient. Use with caution in patients with GP6D deficiency. (5.9) -Macular edema: Postmarketing reports. Recommend regular eye exams in all patients with diabetes according to current standards of care with prompt evaluation for acute visual changes. (5.10) -Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.12) 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure Pioglitazone Pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, can cause dose-related fluid retention when used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications and is most common when pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets are used in combination with insulin. Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate congestive heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure. If congestive heart failure develops, it should be managed according to current standards of care and discontinuation or dose reduction of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets must be considered [see Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.2 Hypoglycemia Glimepiride All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing pioglitazone and glimepiride tablet doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other antidiabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Glimepiride There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.4 Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas Glimepiride The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2.5 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride tablets and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Hepatic Effects Pioglitazone There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking pioglitazone, although the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause. There has been no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Patients with type 2 diabetes may have fatty liver disease or cardiac disease with episodic congestive heart failure, both of which may cause liver test abnormalities, and they may also have other forms of liver disease, many of which can be treated or managed. Therefore, obtaining a liver test panel (serum alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin) and assessing the patient is recommended before initiating pioglitazone and glimepiride tablet therapy. In patients with abnormal liver tests, pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should be initiated with caution. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have abnormal liver tests (ALT greater than 3 times the upper limit of the reference range), pioglitazone and glimepiride tablet treatment should be interrupted and investigation done to establish the probable cause. Pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. Patients who have serum ALT greater than three times the reference range with serum total bilirubin greater than two times the reference range without alternative etiologies are at risk for severe drug-induced liver injury and should not be restarted on pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets. For patients with lesser elevations of serum ALT or bilirubin and with an alternate probable cause, treatment with pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets can be used with caution. 5.6 Urinary Bladder Tumors Pioglitazone Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. A five-year interim report of an ongoing 10-year observational cohort study found a non-significant increase in the risk for bladder cancer in subjects ever exposed to pioglitazone, compared to subjects never exposed to pioglitazone (HR 1.2 [95% CI 0.9 \\342\\210\\2221.5]). Compared to never exposure, a duration of pioglitazone therapy longer than 12 months was associated with an increase in risk (HR 1.4 [95% CI 0.9 \\342\\210\\2222.1]), which reached statistical significance after more than 24 months of pioglitazone use (HR 1.4 [95% CI 1.03 \\342\\210\\2222.0]). Interim results from this study suggested that taking pioglitazone longer than 12 months increased the relative risk of developing bladder cancer in any given year by 40% which equates to an absolute increase of three cases in 10,000 (from approximately seven in 10,000 [without pioglitazone] to approximately 10 in 10,000 [with pioglitazone]). There are insufficient data to determine whether pioglitazone is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors. Consequently, pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should not be used in patients with active bladder cancer and the benefits of glycemic control versus unknown risks for cancer recurrence with pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should be considered in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. 5.7 Edema Pioglitazone In controlled clinical trials, edema was reported more frequently in patients treated with pioglitazone than in placebo-treated patients and is dose-related [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. In postmarketing experience, reports of new onset or worsening edema have been received. Pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should be used with caution in patients with edema. Because thiazolidinediones, including pioglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should be used with caution in patients at risk for congestive heart failure. Patients treated with pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should be monitored for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.8 Fractures Pioglitazone In PROactive (the Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events), 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. During a mean follow-up of 34.5 months, the incidence of bone fracture in females was 5.1% (44/870) for pioglitazone versus 2.5% (23/905) for placebo. This difference was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the study. The majority of fractures observed in female patients were nonvertebral fractures including lower limb and distal upper limb. No increase in the incidence of fracture was observed in men treated with pioglitazone (1.7%) versus placebo (2.1%). The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients, especially female patients, treated with pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets and attention should be given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.9 Hemolytic Anemia Glimepiride Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets contain glimepiride, which belongs to the class of sulfonylurea agents, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a nonsulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.10 Macular Edema Pioglitazone Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in diabetic patients who were taking pioglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but others were diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of the thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist according to current standards of care. Patients with diabetes who report any visual symptoms should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient's underlying medications or other physical findings [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.11 Ovulation Pioglitazone Therapy with pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. This effect has not been investigated in clinical trials, so the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Adequate contraception in all premenopausal women treated with pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets is recommended. 5.12 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Congestive heart failure: Fluid retention may occur and can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms. (5.1) - Hypoglycemia: May be severe. When insulin or an insulin secretagogue is used with pioglitazone, a lower dose of the insulin or insulin secretagogue may be needed to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. (5.2) - Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports for glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, assess for other cases, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.3) - Potential increased risk of cardiovascular mortality with sulfonylureas: Inform patients of risk, benefits, and treatment alternatives. (5.4) - Hepatic effects: Postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, sometimes fatal. Causality cannot be excluded. If liver injury is detected, promptly interrupt pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride and assess patient for probable cause, then treat cause if possible, to resolution or stabilization. Do not restart pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride if liver injury is confirmed and no alternate etiology can be found. (5.5) - Bladder cancer: Preclinical and clinical trial data, and results from an observational study suggest an increased risk of bladder cancer in pioglitazone users. The observational data further suggest that the risk increases with duration of use. Do not use in patients with active bladder cancer. Use caution when using in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer (5.6) - Edema: Dose-related edema may occur. (5.7) - Fractures: Increased incidence in female patients. Apply current standards of care for assessing and maintaining bone health. (5.8) - Hemolytic anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phophate dehydrogenase (GP6D) deficient. Use with caution in patients with GP6D deficiency. (5.9) - Macular edema: Postmarketing reports. Recommend regular eye exams in all patients with diabetes according to current standards of care with prompt evaluation for acute visual changes. (5.10) - Macrovascular outcomes: There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride or any other antidiabetic drug. (5.12) 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure Pioglitazone Pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, can cause dose-related fluid retention when used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications and is most common when pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride is used in combination with insulin. Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate congestive heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure. If congestive heart failure develops, it should be managed according to current standards of care and discontinuation or dose reduction of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride must be considered [see BOXED WARNING, CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) and ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.1)]. 5.2 Hypoglycemia Glimepiride All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride tablets, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other antidiabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Glimepiride There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.4 Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas Glimepiride The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2.5 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride tablets and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Hepatic Effects Pioglitazone There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking pioglitazone, although the reports contain insufficient information necessary to establish the probable cause. There has been no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.1)]. Patients with type 2 diabetes may have fatty liver disease or cardiac disease with episodic congestive heart failure, both of which may cause liver test abnormalities, and they may also have other forms of liver disease, many of which can be treated or managed. Therefore, obtaining a liver test panel (serum alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin) and assessing the patient is recommended before initiating pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride therapy. In patients with abnormal liver tests, pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should be initiated with caution. Measure liver tests promptly in patients who report symptoms that may indicate liver injury, including fatigue, anorexia, right upper abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice. In this clinical context, if the patient is found to have abnormal liver tests (ALT greater than 3 times the upper limit of the reference range), pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride treatment should be interrupted and investigation done to establish the probable cause. Pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should not be restarted in these patients without another explanation for the liver test abnormalities. Patients who have serum ALT greater than three times the reference range with serum total bilirubin greater than two times the reference range without alternative etiologies are at risk for severe drug-induced liver injury and should not be restarted on pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride. For patients with lesser elevations of serum ALT or bilirubin and with an alternate probable cause, treatment with pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride can be used with caution. 5.6 Urinary Bladder Tumors Pioglitazone Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. A five-year interim report of an ongoing 10-year observational cohort study found a non-significant increase in the risk for bladder cancer in subjects ever exposed to pioglitazone, compared to subjects never exposed to pioglitazone (HR 1.2 [95% CI 0.9 \\342\\210\\2221.5]). Compared to never exposure, a duration of pioglitazone therapy longer than 12 months was associated with an increase in risk (HR 1.4 [95% CI 0.9 \\342\\210\\2222.1]), which reached statistical significance after more than 24 months of pioglitazone use (HR 1.4 [95% CI 1.03 \\342\\210\\2222]). Interim results from this study suggested that taking pioglitazone longer than 12 months increased the relative risk of developing bladder cancer in any given year by 40% which equates to an absolute increase of three cases in 10,000 (from approximately seven in 10,000 [without pioglitazone] to approximately 10 in 10,000 [with pioglitazone]). There are insufficient data to determine whether pioglitazone is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors. Consequently, pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should not be used in patients with active bladder cancer and the benefits of glycemic control versus unknown risks for cancer recurrence with pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should be considered in patients with a prior history of bladder cancer. 5.7 Edema Pioglitazone In controlled clinical trials, edema was reported more frequently in patients treated with pioglitazone than in placebo-treated patients and is dose-related [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.1)]. In postmarketing experience, reports of new onset or worsening edema have been received. Pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should be used with caution in patients with edema. Because thiazolidinediones, including pioglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should be used with caution in patients at risk for congestive heart failure. Patients treated with pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should be monitored for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see BOXED WARNING, WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1), and PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION (17)]. 5.8 Fractures Pioglitazone In PROactive (the Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events), 5,238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. During a mean follow-up of 34.5 months, the incidence of bone fracture in females was 5.1% (44/870) for pioglitazone versus 2.5% (23/905) for placebo. This difference was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the study. The majority of fractures observed in female patients were nonvertebral fractures including lower limb and distal upper limb. No increase in the incidence of fracture was observed in men treated with pioglitazone (1.7%) versus placebo (2.1%). The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients, especially female patients, treated with pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride and attention should be given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.9 Hemolytic Anemia Glimepiride Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride tablets contains glimepiride, which belongs to the class of sulfonylurea agents, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a nonsulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)]. 5.10 Macular Edema Pioglitazone Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in diabetic patients who were taking pioglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but others were diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of the thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist according to current standards of care. Patients with diabetes who report any visual symptoms should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient's underlying medications or other physical findings [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.1)]. 5.11 Ovulation Pioglitazone Therapy with pioglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.1)]. This effect has not been investigated in clinical trials, so the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Adequate contraception in all premenopausal women treated with pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride is recommended. 5.12 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride or any other antidiabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure, may occur. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk of other cardiovascular effects. (5.1) -Meta-analysis of 52 mostly short-term trials suggested a potential risk of ischemic cardiovascular (CV) events relative to placebo, not confirmed in a long-term CV outcome trial versus metformin or sulfonylurea. (5.2) -Severe hypoglycemia may occur. Use particular care in elderly or debilitated patients and those with adrenal, pituitary, renal, or hepatic insufficiency. (5.3) -Dose-related edema (5.4), weight gain (5.5), and anemia (5.10) may occur. -Macular edema has been reported. (5.7) -Increased incidence of bone fracture. (5.8) -Postmarketing reports for glimepiride include anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Promptly discontinue AVANDARYL, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.9) -Hemolytic anemia can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.11) -Potential increased risk of cardiovascular mortality with sulfonylureas: Inform patients of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives. (5.12) 5.1 Cardiac Failure With Rosiglitazone Rosiglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, alone or in combination with other antidiabetic agents, can cause fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure. If these signs and symptoms develop, the heart failure should be managed according to current standards of care. Furthermore, discontinuation or dose reduction of rosiglitazone must be considered [see Boxed Warning]. Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) NYHA Class I and II treated with rosiglitazone have an increased risk of cardiovascular events. A 52-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, echocardiographic trial was conducted in 224 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and NYHA Class I or II CHF (ejection fraction <=45%) on background antidiabetic and CHF therapy. An independent committee conducted a blinded evaluation of fluid-related events (including congestive heart failure) and cardiovascular hospitalizations according to predefined criteria (adjudication). Separate from the adjudication, other cardiovascular adverse events were reported by investigators. Although no treatment difference in change from baseline of ejection fractions was observed, more cardiovascular adverse events were observed with rosiglitazone treatment compared with placebo during the 52-week trial. (See Table 1.) Table 1. Emergent Cardiovascular Adverse Events in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure (NYHA Class I and II) Treated With Rosiglitazone or Placebo (in Addition to Background Antidiabetic and CHF Therapy) Events Rosiglitazone Placebo N = 110 n (%) N = 114 n (%) Adjudicated Cardiovascular deaths 5 (5%) 4 (4%) CHF worsening 7 (6%) 4 (4%) - with overnight hospitalization 5 (5%) 4 (4%) - without overnight hospitalization 2 (2%) 0 (0%) New or worsening edema 28 (25%) 10 (9%) New or worsening dyspnea 29 (26%) 19 (17%) Increases in CHF medication 36 (33%) 20 (18%) Cardiovascular hospitalizationa 21 (19%) 15 (13%) Investigator-reported, non-adjudicated Ischemic adverse events 10 (9%) 5 (4%) - Myocardial infarction 5 (5%) 2 (2%) - Angina 6 (5%) 3 (3%) a Includes hospitalization for any cardiovascular reason. In a long-term, cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)], the incidence of heart failure was higher in patients treated with rosiglitazone [2.7% (61/2,220) compared with active control 1.3% (29/2,227), HR 2.10 (95% CI: 1.35, 3.27)]. Initiation of AVANDARYL in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure is contraindicated. AVANDARYL is not recommended in patients with symptomatic heart failure. [See Boxed Warning.] Patients experiencing acute coronary syndromes have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. In view of the potential for development of heart failure in patients having an acute coronary event, initiation of AVANDARYL is not recommended for patients experiencing an acute coronary event, and discontinuation of AVANDARYL during this acute phase should be considered. Patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status (with or without CHF) have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. AVANDARYL is not recommended in patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status. Congestive Heart Failure During Coadministration of Rosiglitazone With Insulin: In trials in which rosiglitazone was added to insulin, rosiglitazone increased the risk of congestive heart failure. Coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin is not recommended. [See Indications and Usage (1), Warnings and Precautions (5.2).] In 7 controlled, randomized, double-blind trials which had durations from 16 to 26 weeks and which were included in a meta-analysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomized to coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin (N = 1,018) or insulin (N = 815). In these 7 trials, rosiglitazone was added to insulin. These trials included patients with long-standing diabetes (median duration of 12 years) and a high prevalence of pre-existing medical conditions, including peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy, ischemic heart disease, vascular disease, and congestive heart failure. The total number of patients with emergent congestive heart failure was 23 (2.3%) and 8 (1.0%) in the rosiglitazone plus insulin and insulin groups, respectively. Heart Failure in Observational Studies of Elderly Diabetic Patients Comparing Rosiglitazone to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that rosiglitazone statistically significantly increased the risk of hospitalized heart failure compared to use of pioglitazone. One other observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years, which also included an analysis in a subpopulation of patients >65 years of age, found no statistically significant increase in emergency department visits or hospitalization for heart failure in patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone in the older subgroup. 5.2 Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events Data from long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials of rosiglitazone versus metformin or sulfonylureas, particularly a cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD), observed no difference in overall mortality or in major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and its components. A meta-analysis of mostly short-term trials suggested an increased risk for myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone compared with placebo. Cardiovascular Events in Large, Long-term, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trials of Rosiglitazone: RECORD, a prospectively designed cardiovascular outcome trial (mean follow-up 5.5 years; 4,447 patients), compared the addition of rosiglitazone to metformin or a sulfonylurea (N = 2,220) with a control group of metformin plus sulfonylurea (N = 2,227) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Non-inferiority was demonstrated for the primary endpoint, cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death, for rosiglitazone compared with control [HR 0.99 (95% CI: 0.85, 1.16)] demonstrating no overall increased risk in cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. The hazard ratios for total mortality and MACE were consistent with the primary endpoint and the 95% CI similarly excluded a 20% increase in risk for rosiglitazone. The hazard ratios for the components of MACE were 0.72 (95% CI: 0.49, 1.06) for stroke, 1.14 (95% CI: 0.80, 1.63) for myocardial infarction, and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.59, 1.18) for cardiovascular death. The results of RECORD are consistent with the findings of 2 earlier long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials (each trial >3 years' duration; total of 9,620 patients) (see Figure 1). In patients with impaired glucose tolerance (DREAM trial), although the incidence of cardiovascular events was higher among subjects who were randomized to rosiglitazone in combination with ramipril than among subjects randomized to ramipril alone, no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between rosiglitazone and placebo. In type 2 diabetes patients who were initiating oral agent monotherapy (ADOPT trial), no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between rosiglitazone and metformin or a sulfonylurea. Figure 1. Hazard Ratios for the Risk of MACE, Myocardial Infarction, and Total Mortality With Rosiglitazone Compared With a Control Group in Long-term Trials Cardiovascular Events in a Group of 52 Clinical Trials: In a meta-analysis of 52 double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trials designed to assess glucose-lowering efficacy in type 2 diabetes (mean duration 6 months), a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone versus pooled comparators was observed [0.4% versus 0.3%; OR 1.8, (95% CI: 1.03, 3.25)]. A statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE was observed with rosiglitazone versus pooled comparators (OR 1.44, 95% CI: 0.95, 2.20). In the placebo-controlled trials, a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction [0.4% versus 0.2%, OR 2.23 (95% CI: 1.14, 4.64)] and statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE [0.7% versus 0.5%, OR 1.53 (95% CI: 0.94, 2.54)] with rosiglitazone were observed. In the active-controlled trials, there was no increased risk of myocardial infarction or MACE. Mortality in Observational Studies of Rosiglitazone Compared to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that rosiglitazone statistically significantly increased the risk of all-cause mortality compared to use of pioglitazone. One observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years found no difference in all-cause mortality between patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone and reported similar results in the subpopulation of patients >65 years of age. One additional small, prospective, observational study found no statistically significant differences for CV mortality and all-cause mortality in patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone. Figure 1 5.3 Hypoglycemia AVANDARYL is a combination tablet containing rosiglitazone and glimepiride, a sulfonylurea. All sulfonylurea drugs are capable of producing severe hypoglycemia. Proper patient selection, dosage, and instructions are important to avoid hypoglycemic episodes. Elderly patients are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering drugs. Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, renal, or hepatic insufficiency are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering drugs. A starting dose of 1 mg glimepiride, as contained in AVANDARYL 4 mg/1 mg, followed by appropriate dose titration is recommended in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).] Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly and in people who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking drugs or other sympatholytic agents. Hypoglycemia is more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, when alcohol is ingested, or when more than one glucose-lowering drug is used. Patients receiving rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea may be at risk for hypoglycemia, and a reduction in the dose of the sulfonylurea may be necessary [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. 5.4 Edema AVANDARYL should be used with caution in patients with edema. In a clinical trial in healthy volunteers who received 8 mg of rosiglitazone once daily for 8 weeks, there was a statistically significant increase in median plasma volume compared with placebo. Since thiazolidinediones, including rosiglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, AVANDARYL should be used with caution in patients at risk for heart failure. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of heart failure [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. In controlled clinical trials of patients with type 2 diabetes, mild to moderate edema was reported in patients treated with rosiglitazone, and may be dose-related. Patients with ongoing edema were more likely to have adverse events associated with edema if started on combination therapy with insulin and rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The use of AVANDARYL in combination with insulin is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2)]. 5.5 Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain was seen with AVANDARYL, rosiglitazone alone, and rosiglitazone together with other hypoglycemic agents (see Table 2). The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Table 2. Weight Changes (kg) From Baseline at Endpoint During Clinical Trials [Median (25th, 75th Percentiles)] Monotherapy Duration Control Group Rosiglitazone 4 mg Rosiglitazone 8 mg 26 weeks Placebo -0.9 (-2.8, 0.9) N = 210 1.0 (-0.9, 3.6) N = 436 3.1 (1.1, 5.8) N = 439 52 weeks Sulfonylurea 2.0 (0, 4.0) N = 173 2.0 (-0.6, 4.0) N = 150 2.6 (0, 5.3) N = 157 Combination Therapy Rosiglitazone +Control Therapy Duration Control Group Rosiglitazone 4 mg Rosiglitazone 8 mg 24-26 weeks Sulfonylurea 0 (-1.0, 1.3) N = 1,155 2.2 (0.5, 4.0) N = 613 3.5 (1.4, 5.9) N = 841 26 weeks Metformin -1.4 (-3.2, 0.2) N = 175 0.8 (-1.0, 2.6) N = 100 2.1 (0, 4.3) N = 184 26 weeks Insulin 0.9 (-0.5, 2.7) N = 162 4.1 (1.4, 6.3) N = 164 5.4 (3.4, 7.3) N = 150 AVANDARYL in Patients With Inadequate Control on Diet and Exercise Duration Control Group AVANDARYL 4 mg/4 mg AVANDARYL 8 mg/4 mg 28 weeks Glimepiride 1.1 (-1.1, 3.2) N = 222 2.2 (0, 4.5) N = 221 2.9 (0, 5.8) N = 217 Rosiglitazone 0.9 (-1.4, 3.2) N = 228 In a 4- to 6-year, monotherapy, comparative trial (ADOPT) in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes not previously treated with antidiabetic medication, the median weight change (25th, 75th percentiles) from baseline at 4 years was 3.5 kg (0.0, 8.1) for rosiglitazone, 2.0 kg (-1.0, 4.8) for glyburide, and -2.4 kg (-5.4, 0.5) for metformin. In postmarketing experience with rosiglitazone alone or in combination with other hypoglycemic agents, there have been rare reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning]. 5.6 Hepatic Effects With sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels in rare cases. In isolated instances, impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis (which may also lead to liver failure) have been reported. Liver enzymes should be measured prior to the initiation of therapy with AVANDARYL in all patients and periodically thereafter per the clinical judgment of the healthcare professional. Therapy with AVANDARYL should not be initiated in patients with increased baseline liver enzyme levels (ALT >2.5X upper limit of normal). Patients with mildly elevated liver enzymes (ALT levels <=2.5X upper limit of normal) at baseline or during therapy with AVANDARYL should be evaluated to determine the cause of the liver enzyme elevation. Initiation of, or continuation of, therapy with AVANDARYL in patients with mild liver enzyme elevations should proceed with caution and include close clinical follow-up, including more frequent liver enzyme monitoring, to determine if the liver enzyme elevations resolve or worsen. If at any time ALT levels increase to >3X the upper limit of normal in patients on therapy with AVANDARYL, liver enzyme levels should be rechecked as soon as possible. If ALT levels remain >3X the upper limit of normal, therapy with AVANDARYL should be discontinued. If any patient develops symptoms suggesting hepatic dysfunction, which may include unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, and/or dark urine, liver enzymes should be checked. The decision whether to continue the patient on therapy with AVANDARYL should be guided by clinical judgment pending laboratory evaluations. If jaundice is observed, drug therapy should be discontinued. 5.7 Macular Edema Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in some diabetic patients who were taking rosiglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but some patients appear to have been diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist, per the Standards of Care of the American Diabetes Association. Additionally, any diabetic who reports any kind of visual symptom should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient's underlying medications or other physical findings. [See Adverse Reactions (6.3).] 5.8 Fractures Long-term trials (ADOPT and RECORD) show an increased incidence of bone fracture in patients, particularly female patients, taking rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. This increased incidence was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the trial. The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone occurred in the upper arm, hand, and foot. These sites of fracture are different from those usually associated with postmenopausal osteoporosis (e.g., hip or spine). Other trials suggest that this risk may also apply to men, although the risk of fracture among women appears higher than that among men. The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients treated with rosiglitazone, and attention given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.9 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue AVANDARYL, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.10 Hematologic Effects Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The observed changes may be related to the increased plasma volume observed with treatment with rosiglitazone. 5.11 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride, a component of AVANDARYL, is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. 5.12 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality With Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2\\302\\275 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.13 Diabetes and Blood Glucose Control When a patient stabilized on any antidiabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever, trauma, infection, or surgery, a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur. At such times, it may be necessary to withhold AVANDARYL and temporarily administer insulin. AVANDARYL may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved. Periodic fasting glucose and HbA1c measurements should be performed to monitor therapeutic response. 5.14 Ovulation Therapy with rosiglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking rosiglitazone [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Thus, adequate contraception in premenopausal women should be recommended. This possible effect has not been specifically investigated in clinical trials; therefore the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Although hormonal imbalance has been seen in preclinical studies [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)], the clinical significance of this finding is not known. If unexpected menstrual dysfunction occurs, the benefits of continued therapy with AVANDARYL should be reviewed."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue AMARYL, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with AMARYL or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including AMARYL, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing AMARYL doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with AMARYL, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue AMARYL, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because AMARYL is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving AMARYL who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of AMARYL and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with AMARYL or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2 - 1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). -Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). -Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). -Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). -Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality With Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2 1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality With Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2 1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( 5.1). -Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2 ). -Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( 5.3). -Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( 5.4). -Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( 5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens- Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). -Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2 ). -Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). -Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). -Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens- Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). -Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2 ). -Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). -Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). -Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). -Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). -Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative (5.3). -Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). -Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( 5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( 5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( 5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( 5.5). 5. 1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5. 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens- Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5. 3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2)]. 5. 4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5. 5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( 5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( 5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( 5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( 5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2) ]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2 to 1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). - Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). - Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). - Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). - Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride tablets doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( 5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( 5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( 5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( 5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride tablets doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2) ]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( 5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( 5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( 5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( 5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride tablets doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride tablets doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( ). 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( . 5.2) Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( ). 5.3 Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( ). 5.4 Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( ). 5.5 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Adverse Reactions ( ) 6.1 Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride tablets doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see ]. Adverse Reactions (6.2) 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue Glimepiride tablets USP, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with Glimepiride tablets USP or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 ) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 HemolyticAnemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g.,elderly, renally inpaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). - Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports inlude anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). - Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative (5.3). - Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). - Macrovascular Outcome: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). 5.1 Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride tablets doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patitents with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when calorie intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypogycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemalytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail elsewhere in the labeling: -Cardiac Failure With Rosiglitazone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Hepatic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Macular Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Hematologic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] -Hemolytic Anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] -Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality for Sulfonylurea Drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] -Ovulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Common adverse reactions (>=5%) reported in clinical trials for AVANDARYL without regard to causality were headache, hypoglycemia, and nasopharyngitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Patients With Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise: Table 3 summarizes adverse events occurring at a frequency of >=5% in any treatment group in the 28-week, double-blind trial of AVANDARYL in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on diet and exercise. Patients in this trial were started on AVANDARYL 4 mg/1 mg, rosiglitazone 4 mg, or glimepiride 1 mg. Doses could be increased at 4-week intervals to reach a maximum total daily dose of either 4 mg/4 mg or 8 mg/4 mg for AVANDARYL, 8 mg for rosiglitazone monotherapy, or 4 mg for glimepiride monotherapy. Table 3. Adverse Events (>=5% in any Treatment Group) Reported by Patients With Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise in a 28-Week, Double-blind Clinical Trial of AVANDARYL Preferred Term Glimepiride Monotherapy Rosiglitazone Monotherapy AVANDARYL 4 mg/4 mg AVANDARYL 8 mg/4 mg N = 222 N = 230 N = 224 N = 218 % % % % Headache 2.3 6.1 3.1 6.0 Nasopharyngitis 3.6 5.2 4.0 4.6 Hypertension 3.6 5.2 3.1 2.3 Hypoglycemiaa 4.1 0.4 3.6 5.5 a As documented by symptoms and a fingerstick blood glucose measurement of <50 mg/dL. Hypoglycemia was reported to be generally mild to moderate in intensity and none of the reported events of hypoglycemia resulted in withdrawal from the trial. Hypoglycemia requiring parenteral treatment (i.e., intravenous glucose or glucagon injection) was observed in 3 (0.7%) patients treated with AVANDARYL. Edema was reported by 3.2% of patients on AVANDARYL, 3.0% on rosiglitazone alone, and 2.3% on glimepiride alone. Congestive heart failure was observed in 1 (0.2%) patient treated with AVANDARYL and in 1 (0.4%) patient treated with rosiglitazone monotherapy. Patients Treated With Rosiglitazone Added to Sulfonylurea Monotherapy and Other Experience With Rosiglitazone or Glimepiride: Trials utilizing rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea provide support for the use of AVANDARYL. Adverse event data from these trials, in addition to adverse events reported with the use of rosiglitazone and glimepiride therapy, are presented below. Rosiglitazone: The most common adverse experiences with rosiglitazone monotherapy (>=5%) were upper respiratory tract infection, injury, and headache. Overall, the types of adverse experiences reported when rosiglitazone was added to a sulfonylurea were similar to those during monotherapy with rosiglitazone. In controlled combination therapy trials with sulfonylureas, mild to moderate hypoglycemic symptoms, which appear to be dose-related, were reported. Few patients were withdrawn for hypoglycemia (<1%) and few episodes of hypoglycemia were considered to be severe (<1%). Events of anemia and edema tended to be reported more frequently at higher doses, and were generally mild to moderate in severity and usually did not require discontinuation of treatment with rosiglitazone. Edema was reported by 4.8% of patients receiving rosiglitazone compared with 1.3% on placebo, and 1.0% on sulfonylurea monotherapy. The reporting rate of edema was higher for rosiglitazone 8 mg added to a sulfonylurea (12.4%) compared with other combinations, with the exception of insulin. Anemia was reported by 1.9% of patients receiving rosiglitazone compared with 0.7% on placebo, 0.6% on sulfonylurea monotherapy, and 2.3% on rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea. Overall, the types of adverse experiences reported when rosiglitazone was added to a sulfonylurea were similar to those during monotherapy with rosiglitazone. In 26-week, double-blind, fixed-dose trials, edema was reported with higher frequency in the rosiglitazone plus insulin combination trials (insulin, 5.4%; and rosiglitazone in combination with insulin, 14.7%). Reports of new onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure occurred at rates of 1% for insulin alone, and 2% (4 mg) and 3% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with rosiglitazone [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Long-term Trial of Rosiglitazone as Monotherapy: A 4- to 6-year trial (ADOPT) compared the use of rosiglitazone (n = 1,456), glyburide (n = 1,441), and metformin (n = 1,454) as monotherapy in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes who were not previously treated with antidiabetic medication. Table 4 presents adverse reactions without regard to causality; rates are expressed per 100 patient-years (PY) exposure to account for the differences in exposure to trial medication across the 3 treatment groups. In ADOPT, fractures were reported in a greater number of women treated with rosiglitazone (9.3%, 2.7/100 patient-years) compared with glyburide (3.5%, 1.3/100 patient-years) or metformin (5.1%, 1.5/100 patient-years). The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone were reported in the upper arm, hand, and foot. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.8).] The observed incidence of fractures for male patients was similar among the 3 treatment groups. Table 4. On-therapy Adverse Events [>=5 Events/100 Patient-Years (PY)] in any Treatment Group Reported in a 4- to 6-Year Clinical Trial of Rosiglitazone as Monotherapy (ADOPT) Preferred Term Rosiglitazone Glyburide Metformin N = 1,456 N = 1,441 N = 1,454 PY = 4,954 PY = 4,244 PY = 4,906 Nasopharyngitis 6.3 6.9 6.6 Back pain 5.1 4.9 5.3 Arthralgia 5.0 4.8 4.2 Hypertension 4.4 6.0 6.1 Upper respiratory tract infection 4.3 5.0 4.7 Hypoglycemia 2.9 13.0 3.4 Diarrhea 2.5 3.2 6.8 Long-term Trial of Rosiglitazone as Combination Therapy (RECORD): RECORD (Rosiglitazone Evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes) was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, non-inferiority trial in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on maximum doses of metformin or sulfonylurea (glyburide, gliclazide, or glimepiride) to compare the time to reach the combined cardiovascular endpoint of cardiovascular death or cardiovascular hospitalization between patients randomized to the addition of rosiglitazone versus metformin or sulfonylurea. The trial included patients who have failed metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy; those who failed metformin (n = 2,222) were randomized to receive either add-on rosiglitazone (n = 1,117) or add-on sulfonylurea (n = 1,105), and those who failed sulfonylurea (n = 2,225) were randomized to receive either add-on rosiglitazone (n = 1,103) or add-on metformin (n = 1,122). Patients were treated to target HbA1c <=7% throughout the trial. The mean age of patients in this trial was 58 years, 52% were male, and the mean duration of follow-up was 5.5 years. Rosiglitazone demonstrated non-inferiority to active control for the primary endpoint of cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death (HR 0.99, 95% CI: 0.85-1.16). There were no significant differences between groups for secondary endpoints with the exception of congestive heart failure (see Table 5). The incidence of congestive heart failure was significantly greater among patients randomized to rosiglitazone. Table 5. Cardiovascular (CV) Outcomes for the RECORD Trial Primary Endpoint Rosiglitazone N = 2,220 Active Control N = 2,227 Hazard Ratio 95% CI CV death or CV hospitalization 321 323 0.99 0.85-1.16 Secondary Endpoint All-cause death 136 157 0.86 0.68-1.08 CV death 60 71 0.84 0.59-1.18 Myocardial infarction 64 56 1.14 0.80-1.63 Stroke 46 63 0.72 0.49-1.06 CV death, myocardial infarction, or stroke 154 165 0.93 0.74-1.15 Heart failure 61 29 2.10 1.35-3.27 There was an increased incidence of bone fracture for subjects randomized to rosiglitazone in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea compared with those randomized to metformin plus sulfonylurea (8.3% versus 5.3%) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. The majority of fractures were reported in the upper limbs and distal lower limbs. The risk of fracture appeared to be higher in females relative to control (11.5% versus 6.3%), than in males relative to control (5.3% versus 4.3%). Additional data are necessary to determine whether there is an increased risk of fracture in males after a longer period of follow-up. Glimepiride: Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 6 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of>=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 6. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials Ranging From 13 Weeks to 12 Months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence Than With Placebo a Glimepiride Placebo N = 745 N = 294 Preferred Term % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental injuryb 5.8 3.4 Flu syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 a Glimepiride doses ranges from 1 to 16 mg administered daily. b Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg, and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, or 8 mg. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride versus placebo was 19.7% versus 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Rosiglitazone: Hematologic: Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone (mean decreases in individual trials as much as 1.0 g/dL hemoglobin and as much as 3.3% hematocrit). The changes occurred primarily during the first 3 months following initiation of therapy with rosiglitazone or following a dose increase in rosiglitazone. The time course and magnitude of decreases were similar in patients treated with a combination of rosiglitazone and other hypoglycemic agents or monotherapy with rosiglitazone. White blood cell counts also decreased slightly in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone. Decreases in hematologic parameters may be related to increased plasma volume observed with treatment with rosiglitazone. Lipids: Changes in serum lipids have been observed following treatment with rosiglitazone in adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Serum Transaminase Levels: In pre-approval clinical trials in 4,598 patients treated with rosiglitazone encompassing approximately 3,600 patient-years of exposure, there was no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity. In pre-approval controlled trials, 0.2% of patients treated with rosiglitazone had reversible elevations in ALT >3X the upper limit of normal compared with 0.2% on placebo and 0.5% on active comparators. The ALT elevations in patients treated with rosiglitazone were reversible. Hyperbilirubinemia was found in 0.3% of patients treated with rosiglitazone compared with 0.9% treated with placebo and 1% in patients treated with active comparators. In pre-approval clinical trials, there were no cases of idiosyncratic drug reactions leading to hepatic failure. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6).] In the 4- to 6-year ADOPT trial, patients treated with rosiglitazone (4,954 patient-years exposure), glyburide (4,244 patient-years exposure), or metformin (4,906 patient-years exposure) as monotherapy had the same rate of ALT increase to >3X upper limit of normal (0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure). In the RECORD trial, patients randomized to rosiglitazone in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea (10,849 patient-years exposure) and to metformin plus sulfonylurea (10,209 patient-years exposure) had a rate of ALT increase to >=3X upper limit of normal of approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure, respectively. Glimepiride: Serum Transaminase Levels: In 11 pooled, placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT >2X the upper limit of the reference range. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the events described below have been identified during post-approval use of AVANDARYL or its individual components. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Rosiglitazone: In patients receiving thiazolidinedione therapy, serious adverse events with or without a fatal outcome, potentially related to volume expansion (e.g., congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusions) have been reported [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. There are postmarketing reports with rosiglitazone of hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations to 3 or more times the upper limit of normal, and hepatic failure with and without fatal outcome, although causality has not been established. There are postmarketing reports with rosiglitazone of rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Contraindications (4)], and new onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Glimepiride: -Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] -Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure -Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis -Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\302\\265L) and thrombocytopenic purpura -Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions -Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: -Congestive Heart Failure [see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)] -Hypoglycemia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)] -Edema [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)] -Fractures [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.8)] -Hemolytic Anemia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (>=5%) are upper respiratory tract infection, accidental injury, and combined edema/peripheral edema. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-877-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse events reported in at least 5% of patients in the controlled 16-week clinical studies between placebo plus a sulfonylurea and pioglitazone (15 mg and 30 mg combined) plus sulfonylurea treatment arms were upper respiratory tract infection (15.5% and 16.6%), accidental injury (8.6% and 3.5%), and combined edema/peripheral edema (2.1% and 7.2%), respectively. The incidence and type of adverse events reported in at least 5% of patients in any combined treatment group from the 24-week study comparing pioglitazone 30 mg plus a sulfonylurea and pioglitazone 45 mg plus a sulfonylurea are shown in Table 1; the rate of adverse events resulting in study discontinuation between the two treatment groups was 6% and 9.7%, respectively. Table 1. Adverse Events that Occurred in >=5% of Patients in Any Treatment Group During the 24-Week Study Adverse Event Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 n (%) Pioglitazone 45 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 n (%) Hypoglycemia 47 (13.4) 55 (15.7) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 43 (12.3) 52 (14.8) Weight Increased 32 (9.1) 47 (13.4) Edema Lower Limb 20 (5.7) 43 (12.3) Headache 25 (7.1) 14 (4) Urinary Tract Infection 20 (5.7) 24 (6.8) Diarrhea 21 (6) 15 (4.3) Nausea 18 (5.1) 14 (4) Pain in Limb 19 (5.4) 14 (4) In US double-blind studies, anemia was reported in <=2% of patients treated with pioglitazone plus a sulfonylurea [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.9)]. Pioglitazone Over 8,500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with pioglitazone in randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials, including 2,605 patients with type 2 diabetes and macrovascular disease treated with pioglitazone in the PROactive clinical trial. In these trials, over 6,000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for six months or longer, over 4,500 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for one year or longer, and over 3,000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for at least two years. In six pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy and 16- to 24-week add-on combination therapy trials, the incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was 4.5% for patients treated with pioglitazone and 5.8% for comparator-treated patients. The most common adverse events leading to withdrawal were related to inadequate glycemic control, although the incidence of these events was lower (1.5%) with pioglitazone than with placebo (3%). In the PROactive trial, the incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was 9% for patients treated with pioglitazone and 7.7% for placebo-treated patients. Congestive heart failure was the most common serious adverse event leading to withdrawal occurring in 1.3% of patients treated with pioglitazone and 0.6% of patients treated with placebo. Common Adverse Events: 16- to 26-Week Monotherapy Trials: A summary of the incidence and type of common adverse events reported in three pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of pioglitazone is provided in Table 2. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. None of these adverse events were related to the pioglitazone dose. Table 2. Three Pooled 16- to 26-Week Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Pioglitazone Monotherapy: Adverse Events Reported at an Incidence >5% and More Commonly in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone than in Patients Treated with Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=259 Pioglitazone N=606 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8.5 13.2 Headache 6.9 9.1 Sinusitis 4.6 6.3 Myalgia 2.7 5.4 Pharyngitis 0.8 5.1 A summary of the overall incidence and types of common adverse events reported in the PROactive trial is provided in Table 3. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. Table 3. PROactive Trial: Incidence and Types of Adverse Events Reported in >5% of Patients Treated with Pioglitazone and More Commonly than Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 Hypoglycemia 18.8 27.3 Edema 15.3 26.7 Cardiac Failure 6.1 8.1 Pain in Extremity 5.7 6.4 Back Pain 5.1 5.5 Chest Pain 5 5.1 Mean duration of patient follow-up was 34.5 months. Congestive Heart Failure A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure is provided in Table 4 for the 16- to 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trials, for the 16- to 24-week add-on to insulin trials, and for the 16- to 24-week add-on to metformin trials. None of the events were fatal. Table 4. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to a Sulfonylurea Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Sulfonylurea N=187 Pioglitazone 15 mg + Sulfonylurea N=184 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=189 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 At least one congestive heart failure event 2 (1.1%) 0 0 1 (0.3%) 6 (1.7%) Hospitalized 2 (1.1%) 0 0 0 2 (0.6%) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to Insulin Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Insulin N=187 Pioglitazone 15 mg + Insulin N=191 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Insulin N=188 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Insulin N=345 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Insulin N=345 At least one congestive heart failure event 0 2 (1%) 2 (1.1%) 3 (0.9%) 5 (1.4%) Hospitalized 0 2 (1%) 1 (0.5%) 1 (0.3%) 3 (0.9%) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to Metformin Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Metformin N=160 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Metformin N=168 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Metformin N=411 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Metformin N=416 At least one congestive heart failure event 0 1 (0.6%) 0 1 (0.2%) Hospitalized 0 1 (0.6%) 0 1 (0.2%) Patients with type 2 diabetes and NYHA class II or early class III congestive heart failure were randomized to receive 24 weeks of double-blind treatment with either pioglitazone at daily doses of 30 mg to 45 mg (n=262) or glyburide at daily doses of 10 mg to 15 mg (n=256). A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure reported in this study is provided in Table 5. Table 5. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in Patients with NYHA Class II or III Congestive Heart Failure Treated with Pioglitazone or Glyburide Number (%) of Subjects Pioglitazone N=262 Glyburide N=256 Death due to cardiovascular causes (adjudicated) 5 (1.9%) 6 (2.3%) Overnight hospitalization for worsening CHF (adjudicated) 26 (9.9%) 12 (4.7%) Emergency room visit for CHF (adjudicated) 4 (1.5%) 3 (1.2%) Patients experiencing CHF progression during study 35 (13.4%) 21 (8.2%) Congestive heart failure events leading to hospitalization that occurred during the PROactive trial are summarized in Table 6. Table 6. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in PROactiveTrial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 At least one hospitalized CHF event 108 (4.1%) 149 (5.7%) Fatal 22 (0.8%) 25 (1%) Hospitalized, nonfatal 86 (3.3%) 124 (4.7%) Cardiovascular Safety In the PROactive trial, 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. Almost all patients (95%) were receiving cardiovascular medications (beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, diuretics, aspirin, statins, and fibrates). At baseline, patients had a mean age of 62 years, mean duration of diabetes of 9.5 years, and mean HbA1c of 8.1%. Mean duration of follow-up was 34.5 months. The primary objective of this trial was to examine the effect of pioglitazone on mortality and macrovascular morbidity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were at high risk for macrovascular events. The primary efficacy variable was the time to the first occurrence of any event in a cardiovascular composite endpoint that included all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac intervention including coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous intervention, major leg amputation above the ankle, and bypass surgery or revascularization in the leg. A total of 514 (19.7%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 572 (21.7%) placebo-treated patients experienced at least one event from the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio 0.90; 95% Confidence Interval: 0.80, 1.02; p=0.10). Although there was no statistically significant difference between pioglitazone and placebo for the three-year incidence of a first event within this composite, there was no increase in mortality or in total macrovascular events with pioglitazone. The number of first occurrences and total individual events contributing to the primary composite endpoint is shown in Table 7. Table 7. PROactive : Number of First and Total Events for Each Component within the Cardiovascular Composite Endpoint Cardiovascular Events Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 First Events n (%) Total Events n First Events n (%) Total Events n Any event 572 (21.7) 900 514 (19.7) 803 All-cause mortality 122 (4.6) 186 110 (4.2) 177 Non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) 118 (4.5) 157 105 (4.0) 131 Stroke 96 (3.6) 119 76 (2.9) 92 Acute coronary syndrome 63 (2.4) 78 42 (1.6) 65 Cardiac intervention (CABG/PCI) 101 (3.8) 240 101 (3.9) 195 Major leg amputation 15 (0.6) 28 9 (0.3) 28 Leg revascularization 57 (2.2) 92 71 (2.7) 115 CABG = coronary artery bypass grafting; PCI = percutaneous intervention Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain occurs when pioglitazone is used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications. The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Tables 8 and 9 summarize the changes in body weight with pioglitazone and placebo in the 16- to 26-week randomized, double-blind monotherapy and 16- to 24-week combination add-on therapy trials and in the PROactive trial. Table 8. Weight Changes (kg) from Baseline during Randomized, Double-Blind Clinical Trials Monotherapy (16 to 26 weeks) Control Group (Placebo) Pioglitazone 15 mg Pioglitazone 30 mg Pioglitazone 45 mg Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) -1.4 (-2.7/0) N=256 0.9 (-0.5/3.4) N=79 1 (-0.9/3.4) N=188 2.6 (0.2/5.4) N=79 Combination Therapy (16 to 24 weeks) Sulfonylurea -0.5 (-1.8/0.7) N=187 2 (0.2/3.2) N=183 3.1 (1.1/5.4) N=528 4.1 (1.8/7.3) N=333 Metformin -1.4 (-3.2/0.3) N=160 N/A 0.9 (-1.3/3.2) N=567 1.8 (-0.9/5.0) N=407 Insulin 0.2 (-1.4/1.4) N=182 2.3 (0.5/4.3) N=190 3.3 (0.9/6.3) N=522 4.1 (1.4/6.8) N=338 Table 9. Median Change in Body Weight in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone vs Patients Treated with Placebo During the Double-Blind Treatment Period in the PROactive Trial Placebo Pioglitazone Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Change from baseline to final visit (kg) -0.5 (-3.3, 2) N=2581 +3.6 (0, 7.5) N=2560 Note: Median exposure for both Pioglitazone and Placebo was 2.7 years Edema Edema induced from taking pioglitazone is reversible when pioglitazone is discontinued. The edema usually does not require hospitalization unless there is coexisting congestive heart failure. A summary of the frequency and types of edema adverse events occurring in clinical investigations of pioglitazone is provided in Table 10. Table 10. Adverse Events of Edema in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone Monotherapy (16 to 26 weeks) Number (%) of Patients Placebo Pioglitazone 15 mg Pioglitazone 30 mg Pioglitazone 45 mg 3 (1.2%) N=259 2 (2.5%) N= 81 13 (4.7%) N= 275 11 (6.5%) N=169 Combined Therapy (16 to 24 weeks) Sulfonylurea 4 (2.1%) N=187 3 (1.6%) N=184 61 (11.3%) N=540 81 (23.1%) N=351 Metformin 4 (2.5%) N=160 N/A 34 (5.9%) N=579 58 (13.9%) N=416 Insulin 13 (7%) N=187 24 (12.6%) N=191 109 (20.5%) N=533 90 (26.1%) N=345 Note: The preferred terms of edema peripheral, generalized edema, pitting edema and fluid retention were combined to form the aggregate term of "edema." Table 11. Adverse Events of Edema in Patients in the PROactive Trial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 419 (15.9%) 712 (27.3%) Note: The preferred terms of edema peripheral, generalized edema, pitting edema and fluid retention were combined to form the aggregate term of "edema." Hepatic Effects There has been no evidence of pioglitazone-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date. One randomized, double-blind, 3-year trial comparing pioglitazone to glyburide as add-on to metformin and insulin therapy was specifically designed to evaluate the incidence of serum ALT elevation to greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range, measured every eight weeks for the first 48 weeks of the trial then every 12 weeks thereafter. A total of 3/1051 (0.3%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 9/1046 (0.9%) patients treated with glyburide developed ALT values greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range. None of the patients treated with pioglitazone in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date have had a serum ALT greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range and a corresponding total bilirubin greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range, a combination predictive of the potential for severe drug-induced liver injury. Hypoglycemia In the pioglitazone clinical trials, adverse events of hypoglycemia were reported based on clinical judgment of the investigators and did not require confirmation with fingerstick glucose testing. In the 16-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 3.7% with pioglitazone 30 mg and 0.5% with placebo. In the 16-week add-on to insulin trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 7.9% with pioglitazone 15 mg, 15.4% with pioglitazone 30 mg, and 4.8% with placebo. The incidence of reported hypoglycemia was higher with pioglitazone 45 mg compared to pioglitazone 30 mg in both the 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial (15.7% versus 13.4%) and in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial (47.8% versus 43.5%). Three patients in these four trials were hospitalized due to hypoglycemia. All three patients were receiving pioglitazone 30 mg (0.9%) in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial. An additional 14 patients reported severe hypoglycemia (defined as causing considerable interference with patient's usual activities) that did not require hospitalization. These patients were receiving pioglitazone 45 mg in combination with sulfonylurea (N=2) or pioglitazone 30 mg or 45 mg in combination with insulin (N=12). Urinary Bladder Tumors Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. There are too few events of bladder cancer to establish causality. Glimepiride Adverse events that occurred in controlled clinical trials with placebo and glimepiride monotherapy, other than hypoglycemia, included: headache (7.8% and 8.2%), accidental injury (3.4% and 5.8%), flu syndrome (4.4% and 5.4%), nausea (3.4% and 5 %) and dizziness (2.4% and 5 %), respectively. Hypoglycemia In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride versus placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain. Allergic Reactions In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.3)]. Laboratory Tests Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range. Laboratory Abnormalities Pioglitazone Hematologic Effects Pioglitazone may cause decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit. In placebo-controlled monotherapy trials, mean hemoglobin values declined by 2% to 4% in patients treated with pioglitazone compared with a mean change in hemoglobin of -1% to +1% in placebo-treated patients. These changes primarily occurred within the first 4 to 12 weeks of therapy and remained relatively constant thereafter. These changes may be related to increased plasma volume associated with pioglitazone therapy and are not likely to be associated with any clinically significant hematologic effects. Creatine Phosphokinase During protocol-specified measurement of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) in pioglitazone clinical trials, an isolated elevation in CPK to greater than 10 times the upper limit of the reference range was noted in nine (0.2%) patients treated with pioglitazone (values of 2150 to 11400 IU/L) and in no comparator-treated patients. Six of these nine patients continued to receive pioglitazone, two patients were noted to have the CPK elevation on the last day of dosing and one patient discontinued pioglitazone due to the elevation. These elevations resolved without any apparent clinical sequelae. The relationship of these events to pioglitazone therapy is unknown. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of pioglitazone and glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Pioglitazone -New onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.10)]. -Fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)]. Postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure have been reported in patients treated with pioglitazone, both with and without previously known heart disease and both with and without concomitant insulin administration. In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)]. Glimepiride -Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.3)] -Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.9)] -Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. -Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis -Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/mcL) and thrombocytopenic purpura -Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions -Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: -Congestive Heart Failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Hemolytic Anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (>=5%) are upper respiratory tract infection, accidental injury, and combined edema/peripheral edema. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse events reported in at least 5% of patients in the controlled 16-week clinical studies between placebo plus a sulfonylurea and pioglitazone (15 mg and 30 mg combined) plus sulfonylurea treatment arms were upper respiratory tract infection (15.5% and 16.6%), accidental injury (8.6% and 3.5%), and combined edema/peripheral edema (2.1% and 7.2%), respectively. The incidence and type of adverse events reported in at least 5% of patients in any combined treatment group from the 24-week study comparing pioglitazone 30 mg plus a sulfonylurea and pioglitazone 45 mg plus a sulfonylurea are shown in Table 1; the rate of adverse events resulting in study discontinuation between the two treatment groups was 6% and 9.7%, respectively. Table 1. Adverse Events that Occurred in >=5% of Patients in Any Treatment Group During the 24-Week Study Adverse Event Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 n (%) Pioglitazone 45 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 n (%) Hypoglycemia 47 (13.4) 55 (15.7) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 43 (12.3) 52 (14.8) Weight Increased 32 (9.1) 47 (13.4) Edema Lower Limb 20 (5.7) 43 (12.3) Headache 25 (7.1) 14 (4.0) Urinary Tract Infection 20 (5.7) 24 (6.8) Diarrhea 21 (6.0) 15 (4.3) Nausea 18 (5.1) 14 (4.0) Pain in Limb 19 (5.4) 14 (4.0) In US double-blind studies, anemia was reported in <=2% of patients treated with pioglitazone plus a sulfonylurea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Pioglitazone Over 8500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with pioglitazone in randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials, including 2605 patients with type 2 diabetes and macrovascular disease treated with pioglitazone in the PROactive clinical trial. In these trials, over 6000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for six months or longer, over 4500 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for one year or longer, and over 3000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for at least two years. In six pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy and 16- to 24-week add-on combination therapy trials, the incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was 4.5% for patients treated with pioglitazone and 5.8% for comparator-treated patients. The most common adverse events leading to withdrawal were related to inadequate glycemic control, although the incidence of these events was lower (1.5%) with pioglitazone than with placebo (3.0%). In the PROactive trial, the incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was 9.0% for patients treated with pioglitazone and 7.7% for placebo-treated patients. Congestive heart failure was the most common serious adverse event leading to withdrawal occurring in 1.3% of patients treated with pioglitazone and 0.6% of patients treated with placebo. Common Adverse Events: 16- to 26-Week Monotherapy Trials: A summary of the incidence and type of common adverse events reported in three pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of pioglitazone is provided in Table 2. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. None of these adverse events were related to the pioglitazone dose. Table 2. Three Pooled 16- to 26-Week Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Pioglitazone Monotherapy: Adverse Events Reported at an Incidence >5% and More Commonly in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone than in Patients Treated with Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=259 Pioglitazone N=606 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8.5 13.2 Headache 6.9 9.1 Sinusitis 4.6 6.3 Myalgia 2.7 5.4 Pharyngitis 0.8 5.1 A summary of the overall incidence and types of common adverse events reported in the PROactive trial is provided in Table 3. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. Table 3. PROactive Trial: Incidence and Types of Adverse Events Reported in >5% of Patients Treated with Pioglitazone and More Commonly than Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 Hypoglycemia 18.8 27.3 Edema 15.3 26.7 Cardiac Failure 6.1 8.1 Pain in Extremity 5.7 6.4 Back Pain 5.1 5.5 Chest Pain 5.0 5.1 Mean duration of patient follow-up was 34.5 months. Congestive Heart Failure A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure is provided in Table 4 for the 16- to 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trials, for the 16- to 24-week add-on to insulin trials, and for the 16- to 24-week add-on to metformin trials. None of the events were fatal. Table 4. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to a Sulfonylurea Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Sulfonylurea N=187 Pioglitazone 15 mg + Sulfonylurea N=184 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=189 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 At least one congestive heart failure event 2 (1.1%) 0 0 1 (0.3%) 6 (1.7%) Hospitalized 2 (1.1%) 0 0 0 2 (0.6%) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to Insulin Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Insulin N=187 Pioglitazone 15 mg + Insulin N=191 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Insulin N=188 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Insulin N=345 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Insulin N=345 At least one congestive heart failure event 0 2 (1.0%) 2 (1.1%) 3 (0.9%) 5 (1.4%) Hospitalized 0 2 (1.0%) 1 (0.5%) 1 (0.3%) 3 (0.9%) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to Metformin Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Metformin N=160 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Metformin N=168 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Metformin N=411 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Metformin N=416 At least one congestive heart failure event 0 1 (0.6%) 0 1 (0.2%) Hospitalized 0 1 (0.6%) 0 1 (0.2%) Patients with type 2 diabetes and NYHA class II or early class III congestive heart failure were randomized to receive 24 weeks of double-blind treatment with either pioglitazone at daily doses of 30 mg to 45 mg (n=262) or glyburide at daily doses of 10 mg to 15 mg (n=256). A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure reported in this study is provided in Table 5. Table 5. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in Patients with NYHA Class II or III Congestive Heart Failure Treated with Pioglitazone or Glyburide Number (%) of Subjects Pioglitazone N=262 Glyburide N=256 Death due to cardiovascular causes (adjudicated) 5 (1.9%) 6 (2.3%) Overnight hospitalization for worsening CHF (adjudicated) 26 (9.9%) 12 (4.7%) Emergency room visit for CHF (adjudicated) 4 (1.5%) 3 (1.2%) Patients experiencing CHF progression during study 35 (13.4%) 21 (8.2%) Congestive heart failure events leading to hospitalization that occurred during the PROactive trial are summarized in Table 6. Table 6. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in PROactive Trial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 At least one hospitalized CHF event 108 (4.1%) 149 (5.7%) Fatal 22 (0.8%) 25 (1%) Hospitalized, nonfatal 86 (3.3%) 124 (4.7%) Cardiovascular Safety In the PROactive trial, 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. Almost all patients (95%) were receiving cardiovascular medications (beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, diuretics, aspirin, statins, and fibrates). At baseline, patients had a mean age of 62 years, mean duration of diabetes of 9.5 years, and mean HbA1c of 8.1%. Mean duration of follow-up was 34.5 months. The primary objective of this trial was to examine the effect of pioglitazone on mortality and macrovascular morbidity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were at high risk for macrovascular events. The primary efficacy variable was the time to the first occurrence of any event in a cardiovascular composite endpoint that included all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac intervention including coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous intervention, major leg amputation above the ankle, and bypass surgery or revascularization in the leg. A total of 514 (19.7%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 572 (21.7%) placebo-treated patients experienced at least one event from the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio 0.90; 95% Confidence Interval: 0.80, 1.02; p=0.10). Although there was no statistically significant difference between pioglitazone and placebo for the three-year incidence of a first event within this composite, there was no increase in mortality or in total macrovascular events with pioglitazone. The number of first occurrences and total individual events contributing to the primary composite endpoint is shown in Table 7. Table 7. PROactive: Number of First and Total Events for Each Component within the Cardiovascular Composite Endpoint Cardiovascular Events Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 First Events n (%) Total Events n First Events n (%) Total Events n Any event 572 (21.7) 900 514 (19.7) 803 All-cause mortality 122 (4.6) 186 110 (4.2) 177 Non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) 118 (4.5) 157 105 (4.0) 131 Stroke 96 (3.6) 119 76 (2.9) 92 Acute coronary syndrome 63 (2.4) 78 42 (1.6) 65 Cardiac intervention (CABG/PCI) 101 (3.8) 240 101 (3.9) 195 Major leg amputation 15 (0.6) 28 9 (0.3) 28 Leg revascularization 57 (2.2) 92 71 (2.7) 115 CABG = coronary artery bypass grafting; PCI = percutaneous intervention Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain occurs when pioglitazone is used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications. The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Tables 8 and 9 summarize the changes in body weight with pioglitazone and placebo in the 16- to 26-week randomized, double-blind monotherapy and 16- to 24-week combination add-on therapy trials and in the PROactive trial. Table 8. Weight Changes (kg) from Baseline during Randomized, Double-Blind Clinical Trials Control Group (Placebo) Pioglitazone 15 mg Pioglitazone 30 mg Pioglitazone 45 mg Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Monotherapy (16 to 26 weeks) -1.4 (-2.7/0.0) N=256 0.9 (-0.5/3.4) N=79 1.0 (-0.9/3.4) N=188 2.6 (0.2/5.4) N=79 Combination Therapy (16 to 24 weeks) Sulfonylurea -0.5 (-1.8/0.7) N=187 2.0 (0.2/3.2) N=183 3.1 (1.1/5.4) N=528 4.1 (1.8/7.3) N=333 Metformin -1.4 (-3.2/0.3) N=160 N/A 0.9 (-1.3/3.2) N=567 1.8 (-0.9/5.0) N=407 Insulin 0.2 (-1.4/1.4) N=182 2.3 (0.5/4.3) N=190 3.3 (0.9/6.3) N=522 4.1 (1.4/6.8) N=338 Table 9. Median Change in Body Weight in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone vs Patients Treated with Placebo During the Double-Blind Treatment Period in the PROactive Trial Placebo Pioglitazone Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Change from baseline to final visit (kg) -0.5 (-3.3, 2.0) N=2581 +3.6 (0.0, 7.5) N=2560 Note: Median exposure for both Pioglitazone and Placebo was 2.7 years Edema Edema induced from taking pioglitazone is reversible when pioglitazone is discontinued. The edema usually does not require hospitalization unless there is coexisting congestive heart failure. A summary of the frequency and types of edema adverse events occurring in clinical investigations of pioglitazone is provided in Table 10. Table 10. Adverse Events of Edema in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone Number (%) of Patients Placebo Pioglitazone 15 mg Pioglitazone 30 mg Pioglitazone 45 mg Monotherapy (16 to 26 weeks) 3 (1.2%) N=259 2 (2.5%) N= 81 13 (4.7%) N= 275 11 (6.5%) N=169 Combined Therapy (16 to 24 weeks) Sulfonylurea 4 (2.1%) N=187 3 (1.6%) N=184 61 (11.3%) N=540 81 (23.1%) N=351 Metformin 4 (2.5%) N=160 N/A 34 (5.9%) N=579 58 (13.9%) N=416 Insulin 13 (7.0%) N=187 24 (12.6%) N=191 109 (20.5%) N=533 90 (26.1%) N=345 Note: The preferred terms of edema peripheral, generalized edema, pitting edema and fluid retention were combined to form the aggregate term of "edema." Table 11. Adverse Events of Edema in Patients in the PROactive Trial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 419 (15.9%) 712 (27.3%) Note: The preferred terms of edema peripheral, generalized edema, pitting edema and fluid retention were combined to form the aggregate term of "edema." Hepatic Effects There has been no evidence of pioglitazone-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date. One randomized, double-blind, 3-year trial comparing pioglitazone to glyburide as add-on to metformin and insulin therapy was specifically designed to evaluate the incidence of serum ALT elevation to greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range, measured every eight weeks for the first 48 weeks of the trial then every 12 weeks thereafter. A total of 3/1051 (0.3%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 9/1046 (0.9%) patients treated with glyburide developed ALT values greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range. None of the patients treated with pioglitazone in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date have had a serum ALT greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range and a corresponding total bilirubin greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range, a combination predictive of the potential for severe drug-induced liver injury. Hypoglycemia In the pioglitazone clinical trials, adverse events of hypoglycemia were reported based on clinical judgment of the investigators and did not require confirmation with fingerstick glucose testing. In the 16-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 3.7% with pioglitazone 30 mg and 0.5% with placebo. In the 16-week add-on to insulin trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 7.9% with pioglitazone 15 mg, 15.4% with pioglitazone 30 mg, and 4.8% with placebo. The incidence of reported hypoglycemia was higher with pioglitazone 45 mg compared to pioglitazone 30 mg in both the 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial (15.7% versus 13.4%) and in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial (47.8% versus 43.5%). Three patients in these four trials were hospitalized due to hypoglycemia. All three patients were receiving pioglitazone 30 mg (0.9%) in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial. An additional 14 patients reported severe hypoglycemia (defined as causing considerable interference with patient's usual activities) that did not require hospitalization. These patients were receiving pioglitazone 45 mg in combination with sulfonylurea (N=2) or pioglitazone 30 mg or 45 mg in combination with insulin (N=12). Urinary Bladder Tumors Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. There are too few events of bladder cancer to establish causality. Glimepiride Adverse events that occurred in controlled clinical trials with placebo and glimepiride monotherapy, other than hypoglycemia, included: headache (7.8% and 8.2%), accidental injury (3.4% and 5.8%), flu syndrome (4.4% and 5.4%), nausea (3.4% and 5.0%) and dizziness (2.4% and 5.0%), respectively. Hypoglycemia In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 \\342\\210\\222150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride versus placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain. Allergic Reactions In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Laboratory Tests Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range. Laboratory Abnormalities Pioglitazone Hematologic Effects Pioglitazone may cause decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit. In placebo-controlled monotherapy trials, mean hemoglobin values declined by 2% to 4% in patients treated with pioglitazone compared with a mean change in hemoglobin of -1% to +1% in placebo-treated patients. These changes primarily occurred within the first 4 to 12 weeks of therapy and remained relatively constant thereafter. These changes may be related to increased plasma volume associated with pioglitazone therapy and are not likely to be associated with any clinically significant hematologic effects. Creatine Phosphokinase During protocol-specified measurement of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) in pioglitazone clinical trials, an isolated elevation in CPK to greater than 10 times the upper limit of the reference range was noted in nine (0.2%) patients treated with pioglitazone (values of 2150 to 11400 IU/L) and in no comparator-treated patients. Six of these nine patients continued to receive pioglitazone, two patients were noted to have the CPK elevation on the last day of dosing and one patient discontinued pioglitazone due to the elevation. These elevations resolved without any apparent clinical sequelae. The relationship of these events to pioglitazone therapy is unknown. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of pioglitazone and glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Pioglitazone -New onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. -Fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure have been reported in patients treated with pioglitazone, both with and without previously known heart disease and both with and without concomitant insulin administration. In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Glimepiride -Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure -Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis -Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/mcL) and thrombocytopenic purpura -Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions -Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: -Congestive Heart Failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Hemolytic Anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (>=5%) are upper respiratory tract infection, accidental injury, and combined edema/peripheral edema. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1-877-825-3327 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse events reported in at least 5% of patients in the controlled 16-week clinical studies between placebo plus a sulfonylurea and pioglitazone (15 mg and 30 mg combined) plus sulfonylurea treatment arms were upper respiratory tract infection (15.5% and 16.6%), accidental injury (8.6% and 3.5%), and combined edema/peripheral edema (2.1% and 7.2%), respectively. The incidence and type of adverse events reported in at least 5% of patients in any combined treatment group from the 24-week study comparing pioglitazone 30 mg plus a sulfonylurea and pioglitazone 45 mg plus a sulfonylurea are shown in Table 1; the rate of adverse events resulting in study discontinuation between the two treatment groups was 6% and 9.7%, respectively. Table 1. Adverse Events that Occurred in >=5% of Patients in Any Treatment Group During the 24-Week Study Adverse Event Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 n (%) Pioglitazone 45 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 n (%) Hypoglycemia 47 (13.4) 55 (15.7) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 43 (12.3) 52 (14.8) Weight Increased 32 (9.1) 47 (13.4) Edema Lower Limb 20 (5.7) 43 (12.3) Headache 25 (7.1) 14 (4.0) Urinary Tract Infection 20 (5.7) 24 (6.8) Diarrhea 21 (6.0) 15 (4.3) Nausea 18 (5.1) 14 (4.0) Pain in Limb 19 (5.4) 14 (4.0) In US double-blind studies, anemia was reported in <=2% of patients treated with pioglitazone plus a sulfonylurea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Pioglitazone Over 8500 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with pioglitazone in randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials, including 2605 patients with type 2 diabetes and macrovascular disease treated with pioglitazone in the PROactive clinical trial. In these trials, over 6000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for six months or longer, over 4500 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for one year or longer, and over 3000 patients have been treated with pioglitazone for at least two years. In six pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy and 16- to 24-week add-on combination therapy trials, the incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was 4.5% for patients treated with pioglitazone and 5.8% for comparator-treated patients. The most common adverse events leading to withdrawal were related to inadequate glycemic control, although the incidence of these events was lower (1.5%) with pioglitazone than with placebo (3.0%). In the PROactive trial, the incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was 9.0% for patients treated with pioglitazone and 7.7% for placebo-treated patients. Congestive heart failure was the most common serious adverse event leading to withdrawal occurring in 1.3% of patients treated with pioglitazone and 0.6% of patients treated with placebo. Common Adverse Events: 16- to 26-Week Monotherapy Trials: A summary of the incidence and type of common adverse events reported in three pooled 16- to 26-week placebo-controlled monotherapy trials of pioglitazone is provided in Table 2. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. None of these adverse events were related to the pioglitazone dose. Table 2. Three Pooled 16- to 26-Week Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials of Pioglitazone Monotherapy: Adverse Events Reported at an Incidence >5% and More Commonly in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone than in Patients Treated with Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=259 Pioglitazone N=606 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8.5 13.2 Headache 6.9 9.1 Sinusitis 4.6 6.3 Myalgia 2.7 5.4 Pharyngitis 0.8 5.1 A summary of the overall incidence and types of common adverse events reported in the PROactive trial is provided in Table 3. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% and more commonly in patients treated with pioglitazone than in patients who received placebo. Table 3. PROactive Trial: Incidence and Types of Adverse Events Reported in >5% of Patients Treated with Pioglitazone and More Commonly than Placebo % of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 Hypoglycemia 18.8 27.3 Edema 15.3 26.7 Cardiac Failure 6.1 8.1 Pain in Extremity 5.7 6.4 Back Pain 5.1 5.5 Chest Pain 5.0 5.1 Mean duration of patient follow-up was 34.5 months. Congestive Heart Failure A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure is provided in Table 4 for the 16- to 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trials, for the 16- to 24-week add-on to insulin trials, and for the 16- to 24-week add-on to metformin trials. None of the events were fatal. Table 4. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to a Sulfonylurea Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Sulfonylurea N=187 Pioglitazone 15 mg + Sulfonylurea N=184 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=189 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Sulfonylurea N=351 At least one congestive heart failure event 2 (1.1%) 0 0 1 (0.3%) 6 (1.7%) Hospitalized 2 (1.1%) 0 0 0 2 (0.6%) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to Insulin Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Insulin N=187 Pioglitazone 15 mg + Insulin N=191 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Insulin N=188 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Insulin N=345 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Insulin N=345 At least one congestive heart failure event 0 2 (1.0%) 2 (1.1%) 3 (0.9%) 5 (1.4%) Hospitalized 0 2 (1.0%) 1 (0.5%) 1 (0.3%) 3 (0.9%) Patients Treated with Pioglitazone or Placebo Added on to Metformin Number (%) of Patients Placebo-Controlled Trial (16 weeks) Non-Controlled Double Blind Trial (24 weeks) Placebo + Metformin N=160 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Metformin N=168 Pioglitazone 30 mg + Metformin N=411 Pioglitazone 45 mg + Metformin N=416 At least one congestive heart failure event 0 1 (0.6%) 0 1 (0.2%) Hospitalized 0 1 (0.6%) 0 1 (0.2%) Patients with type 2 diabetes and NYHA class II or early class III congestive heart failure were randomized to receive 24 weeks of double-blind treatment with either pioglitazone at daily doses of 30 mg to 45 mg (n=262) or glyburide at daily doses of 10 mg to 15 mg (n=256). A summary of the incidence of adverse events related to congestive heart failure reported in this study is provided in Table 5. Table 5. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in Patients with NYHA Class II or III Congestive Heart Failure Treated with Pioglitazone or Glyburide Number (%) of Subjects Pioglitazone N=262 Glyburide N=256 Death due to cardiovascular causes (adjudicated) 5 (1.9%) 6 (2.3%) Overnight hospitalization for worsening CHF (adjudicated) 26 (9.9%) 12 (4.7%) Emergency room visit for CHF (adjudicated) 4 (1.5%) 3 (1.2%) Patients experiencing CHF progression during study 35 (13.4%) 21 (8.2%) Congestive heart failure events leading to hospitalization that occurred during the PROactive trial are summarized in Table 6. Table 6. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) in PROactiveTrial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 At least one hospitalized CHF event 108 (4.1%) 149 (5.7%) Fatal 22 (0.8%) 25 (1%) Hospitalized, nonfatal 86 (3.3%) 124 (4.7%) Cardiovascular Safety In the PROactive trial, 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease were randomized to pioglitazone (N=2605), force-titrated up to 45 mg daily or placebo (N=2633) in addition to standard of care. Almost all patients (95%) were receiving cardiovascular medications (beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, diuretics, aspirin, statins, and fibrates). At baseline, patients had a mean age of 62 years, mean duration of diabetes of 9.5 years, and mean HbA1c of 8.1%. Mean duration of follow-up was 34.5 months. The primary objective of this trial was to examine the effect of pioglitazone on mortality and macrovascular morbidity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who were at high risk for macrovascular events. The primary efficacy variable was the time to the first occurrence of any event in a cardiovascular composite endpoint that included all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac intervention including coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous intervention, major leg amputation above the ankle, and bypass surgery or revascularization in the leg. A total of 514 (19.7%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 572 (21.7%) placebo-treated patients experienced at least one event from the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio 0.90; 95% Confidence Interval: 0.80, 1.02; p=0.10). Although there was no statistically significant difference between pioglitazone and placebo for the three-year incidence of a first event within this composite, there was no increase in mortality or in total macrovascular events with pioglitazone. The number of first occurrences and total individual events contributing to the primary composite endpoint is shown in Table 7. Table 7. PROactive: Number of First and Total Events for Each Component within the Cardiovascular Composite Endpoint Cardiovascular Events Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 First Events n (%) Total Events n First Events n (%) Total Events n Any event 572 (21.7) 900 514 (19.7) 803 All-cause mortality 122 (4.6) 186 110 (4.2) 177 Non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) 118 (4.5) 157 105 (4.0) 131 Stroke 96 (3.6) 119 76 (2.9) 92 Acute coronary syndrome 63 (2.4) 78 42 (1.6) 65 Cardiac intervention (CABG/PCI) 101 (3.8) 240 101 (3.9) 195 Major leg amputation 15 (0.6) 28 9 (0.3) 28 Leg revascularization 57 (2.2) 92 71 (2.7) 115 CABG = coronary artery bypass grafting; PCI = percutaneous intervention Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain occurs when pioglitazone is used alone or in combination with other antidiabetic medications. The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Tables 8 and 9 summarize the changes in body weight with pioglitazone and placebo in the 16- to 26-week randomized, double-blind monotherapy and 16- to 24-week combination add-on therapy trials and in the PROactive trial. Table 8. Weight Changes (kg) from Baseline during Randomized, Double-Blind Clinical Trials Control Group (Placebo) Pioglitazone 15 mg Pioglitazone 30 mg Pioglitazone 45 mg Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Monotherapy (16 to 26 weeks) -1.4 (-2.7/0.0) N=256 0.9 (-0.5/3.4) N=79 1.0 (-0.9/3.4) N=188 2.6 (0.2/5.4) N=79 Combination Therapy (16 to 24 weeks) Sulfonylurea -0.5 (-1.8/0.7) N=187 2.0 (0.2/3.2) N=183 3.1 (1.1/5.4) N=528 4.1 (1.8/7.3) N=333 Metformin -1.4 (-3.2/0.3) N=160 N/A 0.9 (-1.3/3.2) N=567 1.8 (-0.9/5.0) N=407 Insulin 0.2 (-1.4/1.4) N=182 2.3 (0.5/4.3) N=190 3.3 (0.9/6.3) N=522 4.1 (1.4/6.8) N=338 Table 9. Median Change in Body Weight in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone vs Patients Treated with Placebo During the Double-Blind Treatment Period in the PROactive Trial Placebo Pioglitazone Median (25th/75th percentile) Median (25th/75th percentile) Change from baseline to final visit (kg) -0.5 (-3.3, 2.0) N=2581 +3.6 (0.0, 7.5) N=2560 Note: Median exposure for both Pioglitazone and Placebo was 2.7 years Edema Edema induced from taking pioglitazone is reversible when pioglitazone is discontinued. The edema usually does not require hospitalization unless there is coexisting congestive heart failure. A summary of the frequency and types of edema adverse events occurring in clinical investigations of pioglitazone is provided in Table 10. Table 10. Adverse Events of Edema in Patients Treated with Pioglitazone Number (%) of Patients Placebo Pioglitazone 15 mg Pioglitazone 30 mg Pioglitazone 45 mg Monotherapy (16 to 26 weeks) 3 (1.2%) N=259 2 (2.5%) N= 81 13 (4.7%) N= 275 11 (6.5%) N=169 Combined Therapy (16 to 24 weeks) Sulfonylurea 4 (2.1%) N=187 3 (1.6%) N=184 61 (11.3%) N=540 81 (23.1%) N=351 Metformin 4 (2.5%) N=160 N/A 34 (5.9%) N=579 58 (13.9%) N=416 Insulin 13 (7.0%) N=187 24 (12.6%) N=191 109 (20.5%) N=533 90 (26.1%) N=345 Note: The preferred terms of edema peripheral, generalized edema, pitting edema and fluid retention were combined to form the aggregate term of "edema." Table 11. Adverse Events of Edema in Patients in the PROactive Trial Number (%) of Patients Placebo N=2633 Pioglitazone N=2605 419 (15.9%) 712 (27.3%) Note: The preferred terms of edema peripheral, generalized edema, pitting edema and fluid retention were combined to form the aggregate term of "edema." Hepatic Effects There has been no evidence of pioglitazone-induced hepatotoxicity in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date. One randomized, double-blind, 3-year trial comparing pioglitazone to glyburide as add-on to metformin and insulin therapy was specifically designed to evaluate the incidence of serum ALT elevation to greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range, measured every eight weeks for the first 48 weeks of the trial then every 12 weeks thereafter. A total of 3/1051 (0.3%) patients treated with pioglitazone and 9/1046 (0.9%) patients treated with glyburide developed ALT values greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range. None of the patients treated with pioglitazone in the pioglitazone-controlled clinical trial database to date have had a serum ALT greater than three times the upper limit of the reference range and a corresponding total bilirubin greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range, a combination predictive of the potential for severe drug-induced liver injury. Hypoglycemia In the pioglitazone clinical trials, adverse events of hypoglycemia were reported based on clinical judgment of the investigators and did not require confirmation with fingerstick glucose testing. In the 16-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 3.7% with pioglitazone 30 mg and 0.5% with placebo. In the 16-week add-on to insulin trial, the incidence of reported hypoglycemia was 7.9% with pioglitazone 15 mg, 15.4% with pioglitazone 30 mg, and 4.8% with placebo. The incidence of reported hypoglycemia was higher with pioglitazone 45 mg compared to pioglitazone 30 mg in both the 24-week add-on to sulfonylurea trial (15.7% versus 13.4%) and in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial (47.8% versus 43.5%). Three patients in these four trials were hospitalized due to hypoglycemia. All three patients were receiving pioglitazone 30 mg (0.9%) in the 24-week add-on to insulin trial. An additional 14 patients reported severe hypoglycemia (defined as causing considerable interference with patient's usual activities) that did not require hospitalization. These patients were receiving pioglitazone 45 mg in combination with sulfonylurea (N=2) or pioglitazone 30 mg or 45 mg in combination with insulin (N=12). Urinary Bladder Tumors Tumors were observed in the urinary bladder of male rats in the two-year carcinogenicity study [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. In two 3-year trials in which pioglitazone was compared to placebo or glyburide, there were 16/3656 (0.44%) reports of bladder cancer in patients taking pioglitazone compared to 5/3679 (0.14%) in patients not taking pioglitazone. After excluding patients in whom exposure to study drug was less than one year at the time of diagnosis of bladder cancer, there were six (0.16%) cases on pioglitazone and two (0.05%) cases on placebo. There are too few events of bladder cancer to establish causality. Glimepiride Adverse events that occurred in controlled clinical trials with placebo and glimepiride monotherapy, other than hypoglycemia, included: headache (7.8% and 8.2%), accidental injury (3.4% and 5.8%), flu syndrome (4.4% and 5.4%), nausea (3.4% and 5.0%) and dizziness (2.4% and 5.0%), respectively. Hypoglycemia In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 \\342\\210\\222150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride versus placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain. Allergic Reactions In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Laboratory Tests Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than two times the upper limit of the reference range. Laboratory Abnormalities Pioglitazone Hematologic Effects Pioglitazone may cause decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit. In placebo-controlled monotherapy trials, mean hemoglobin values declined by 2% to 4% in patients treated with pioglitazone compared with a mean change in hemoglobin of -1% to +1% in placebo-treated patients. These changes primarily occurred within the first 4 to 12 weeks of therapy and remained relatively constant thereafter. These changes may be related to increased plasma volume associated with pioglitazone therapy and are not likely to be associated with any clinically significant hematologic effects. Creatine Phosphokinase During protocol-specified measurement of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) in pioglitazone clinical trials, an isolated elevation in CPK to greater than 10 times the upper limit of the reference range was noted in nine (0.2%) patients treated with pioglitazone (values of 2150 to 11400 IU/L) and in no comparator-treated patients. Six of these nine patients continued to receive pioglitazone, two patients were noted to have the CPK elevation on the last day of dosing and one patient discontinued pioglitazone due to the elevation. These elevations resolved without any apparent clinical sequelae. The relationship of these events to pioglitazone therapy is unknown. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of pioglitazone and glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Pioglitazone -New onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. -Fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure have been reported in patients treated with pioglitazone, both with and without previously known heart disease and both with and without concomitant insulin administration. In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Glimepiride -Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. -Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis -Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/mcL) and thrombocytopenic purpura -Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions -Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with AMARYL were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC at 1-800-633-1610 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with AMARYL in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with AMARYL for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among AMARYL-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of AMARYL-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with PlaceboAMARYL doses ranged from 1-16 mg administered daily AMARYL N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental InjuryInsufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to AMARYL 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to AMARYL 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for AMARYL 1 mg, 17% for AMARYL 4 mg, 16% for AMARYL 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg AMARYL or placebo daily. The dose of AMARYL was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90-150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of AMARYL were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for AMARYL vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: AMARYL, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of AMARYL-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with AMARYL. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of AMARYL, 1.9% of AMARYL-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of AMARYL. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\302\\265L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Accord Healthcare Inc. at 1-866-941-7875 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with PlaceboGlimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental InjuryInsufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. - Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and -Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )] - Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] - Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. - Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis - Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia - Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions -Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ] -Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness ( 6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Accord Healthcare Inc. at 1-866-941-7875 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1:Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): ): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. - Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)] - Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)] - Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. - Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis - Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura - Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions - Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Accord Healthcare Inc. at 1-866-941-7875 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1:Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): ): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. - Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and - Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] - Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] - Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. - Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis - Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura - Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions - Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness ( 6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Accord Healthcare Inc. at 1-866-941-7875 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1:Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): ): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc. at 1-866-850-2876 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily  Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis. Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia. Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\302\\265L) and thrombocytopenic purpura. Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions. Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness ( 6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Carlsbad Technology, Inc. at (760) 431-8284 or contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride -treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride -treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* *Glimepiride doses ranged from 1-16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90-150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)] . The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride -treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride -treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Citron Pharma LLC. at 1-855-5-CITRON (1-855-524-8766) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily  Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis. Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia. Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\302\\265L) and thrombocytopenic purpura. Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions. Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: - Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] - Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possible or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily  Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride tablets 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride tablets 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride tablets were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: - Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] - Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride tablets 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride tablets 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride tablets 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride tablets was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride tablets were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness ( 6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride tablets 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride tablets 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride tablets 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride tablets or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride tablets was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride tablets were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride tablets 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride tablets 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride tablets 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride tablets or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride tablets was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride tablets were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see ] Warnings and Precautions ( ) 5.1 Hemolytic anemia [see ] Warnings and Precautions ( ) 5.3 In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness ( ). 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or . www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride tablets 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride tablets 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride tablets 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. Clinical Studies ( )]. 14.1 In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride tablets or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride tablets was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride tablets were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see ]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Clinical Studies ( ) 14.1 Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see ]. Weight gain: Clinical Studies ( ) 14.1 In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see and ]. Allergic Reactions: Warnings Precautions ( ) 5.2 Laboratory Tests: : In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see and ] Warnings Precautions ( ) 5.2 Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see and ] Warnings Precautions ( ) 5.3 Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Lambda Therapeutics Research Ltd. at +1-855-642-2594 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride -treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with PlaceboGlimepiride doses ranged from 1-16 mg administered daily Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90-150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serumALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Post marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Micro Labs USA, Inc. at 1-855-839-8195 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily  Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Micro Labs USA, Inc. at 1-855-875-7814 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 *Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily  Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>= 5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least one year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >= 5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >= 5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with PlaceboGlimepiride doses ranged from 1 mg to 16 mg administered daily Glimepiride N = 745 % Placebo N = 294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental InjuryInsufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 Hypoglycemia In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1 mg, 2 mg, 3 mg, 4 mg, 6 mg or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. -Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. -Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis -Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura -Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions -Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Qualitest Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-444-4011 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials Ranging from 13 Weeks to 12 Months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence Than With Placebo Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental InjuryInsufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. W eight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: -Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>= 5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >= 5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials Ranging From 13 Weeks to 12 Months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >= 5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence Than With PlaceboGlimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Glimepiride N = 745 % Placebo N = 294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental InjuryInsufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3 week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14 week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. -Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. -Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis -Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia -Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura -Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions -Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>= 5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-888-838-2872, X6351 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >= 5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials Ranging From 13 Weeks to 12 Months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >= 5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence Than With PlaceboGlimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Glimepiride N = 745 % Placebo N = 294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental InjuryInsufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3 week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14 week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>= 5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-888-838-2872, X6351 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >= 5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials Ranging From 13 Weeks to 12 Months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >= 5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence Than With Placebo Glimepiride N = 745 % Placebo N = 294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3 week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14 week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>=5% and more common than with placebo) include hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Virtus Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 813-283-1344 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with PlaceboGlimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental InjuryInsufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring AMARYL dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when AMARYL and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. AMARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require AMARYL dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including AMARYL, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving AMARYL, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving AMARYL, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including AMARYL, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving AMARYL, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving AMARYL, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of AMARYL's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of AMARYL in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, AMARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). - Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). - Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). -Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1,7.4) 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, AMARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1). - Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly ( 7.2). - Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( 7.3). - Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption.Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). - Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). - Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). - Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption.Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). -Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). -Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). -Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). -Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). -Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). -Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly ( 7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( 7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption.Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. ( 7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( 7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4) 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevslam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS - Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). - Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). - Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cyctochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS - Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). - Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). - Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). - Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. ( 7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( 7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H 2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( ). 7.1 Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. ( ). 7.2 Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( ). 7.3 Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( , ). 2.1 7.4 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. 2 The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets USP dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride tablets USP and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). 7.1 DrugsAffecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride , monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride , monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interaction There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Inhibitors of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) -Inducers of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) -Inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations. (7.1) -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose. (7.2) -Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.3) -Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. AVANDARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. (2.1, 7.4) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Rosiglitazone: An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase the AUC of rosiglitazone and an inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease the AUC of rosiglitazone. Therefore, if an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with rosiglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based upon clinical response. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).] A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with the IV, topical, or vaginal preparations of miconazole is not known. Potential interactions of glimepiride with other drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9 also include phenytoin, diclofenac, ibuprofen, naproxen, and mefenamic acid. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).] Glimepiride: There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of CYP 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, and terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.3 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, AVANDARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. Limit pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily. (2.3, 7.1) -CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.2) -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring DUETACT dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.3). -Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when DUETACT and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.4) -CYP2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations. (7.5) -Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. DUETACT should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. (2.4, 7.6) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors Pioglitazone An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t\\302\\275) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors. Since the minimum dose of pioglitazone in DUETACT exceeds 15 mg, patients taking concomitant strong CYP2C8 inhibitors should switch to individual components of DUETACT, unless the prescribing health care provider determines that the benefit of DUETACT clearly outweighs the risk of increased pioglitazone exposure [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 CYP2C8 Inducers Pioglitazone An inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may significantly decrease the exposure (AUC) of pioglitazone. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism Glimepiride A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require DUETACT dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, a component of DUETACT, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving DUETACT, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving DUETACT, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving DUETACT, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving DUETACT, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of DUETACT's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of DUETACT in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.4 Miconazole Glimepiride A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.5 CYP2C9 Interactions Glimepiride There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of CYP2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.6 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Glimepiride Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentrations and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered four hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, DUETACT should be administered at least four hours prior to colesevelam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. Limit pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily. (2.3, 7.1) -CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.2) -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring pioglitaone hydrochloride and glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.3). -Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride tablets and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.4) -CYP2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations. (7.5) -Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. (2.4, 7.6) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors Pioglitazone An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t\\302\\275) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors. Since the minimum dose of pioglitazone in pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride tablet exceeds 15 mg, patients taking concomitant strong CYP2C8 inhibitors should switch to individual components of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, unless the prescribing health care provider determines that the benefit of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride clearly outweighs the risk of increased pioglitazone exposure [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.3) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.2 CYP2C8 Inducers Pioglitazone An inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may significantly decrease the exposure (AUC) of pioglitazone. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.3 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism Glimepiride A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride tablets, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.4 Miconazole Glimepiride A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.5 CYP2C9 Interactions Glimepiride There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of CYP2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.6 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Glimepiride Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentrations and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered four hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, pioglitazone hydrochloride and glimepiride should be administered at least four hours prior to colesevelam [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. Limit pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily. (2.3, 7.1) -CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.2) -Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring pioglitazone and glimepiride tablet dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose. (7.3) -Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.4) -CYP2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations. (7.5) -Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. (2.4, 7.6) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors Pioglitazone An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t\\302\\275) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors. Since the minimum dose of pioglitazone in pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets exceeds 15 mg, patients taking concomitant strong CYP2C8 inhibitors should switch to individual components of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, unless the prescribing health care provider determines that the benefit of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets clearly outweighs the risk of increased pioglitazone exposure [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 CYP2C8 Inducers Pioglitazone An inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may significantly decrease the exposure (AUC) of pioglitazone. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism Glimepiride A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require pioglitazone and glimepiride tablet dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, a component of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets' glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.4 Miconazole Glimepiride A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.5 CYP2C9 Interactions Glimepiride There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of CYP2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.6 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Glimepiride Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentrations and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered four hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, pioglitazone and glimepiride tablets should be administered at least four hours prior to colesevelam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with Glimepiride are shown below. Adverse Events Occurring in >1% Glimepiride Patients \\342\\200\\213 Number % Number % Total treated 746 100 294 100 Dizziness 13 1.7 1 0.3 Asthenia 12 1.6 3 1.0 Headache 11 1.5 4 1.4 Nausea 8 1.1 0 0.0 Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treatment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. The profile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See .) WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impair\\302\\255ment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen, (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treat\\302\\255ment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. Theprofile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impair\\302\\255ment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen, (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treat\\302\\255ment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. Theprofile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impair\\302\\255ment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen, (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treat\\302\\255ment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. Theprofile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults. table4.jpg"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including, glimepiride and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treatment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. The profile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults. Chart 4"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. table 4 Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impair\\302\\255ment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen, (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treat\\302\\255ment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. Theprofile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGSandPRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. table4.jpg Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impair-ment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen, (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treat-ment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. Theprofile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values < 60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9 to 1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1 year studies (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS). Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in U.S. controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U.S. placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. Adverse Events Occurring in > 1% Glimepiride Patients Glimepiride Placebo No. % No. % Total Treated 746 100 294 100 Dizziness 13 1.7 1 0.3 Asthenia 12 1.6 3 1.0 Headache 11 1.5 4 1.4 Nausea 8 1.1 0 0.0 Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treatment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. The profile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values less than 60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. Gastrointestinal Reactions Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Dermatologic Reactions Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hematologic Reactions Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Metabolic Reactions Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including, glimepiride and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Other Reactions Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treatment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. Pediatric Patients In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. The profile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. 6.1 Clinical Trials ExperienceBecause clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials Ranging from 13 Weeks to 12 Months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence Than With Placebo* * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing ExperienceThe following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"Adverse Reactions The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): ): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone to report suspected adverse reactions call 1-800-332-1088 to report suspected adverse reactions call 1-800-332-1088"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. PLEASE VIEW TABLE 1 AND ALL OTHER TABLES REFERENCED HERE: http://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=9b74fbac-9e04-4927-9981-1e3dace89c6d"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride -treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride -treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 *Glimepiride doses ranged from 1-16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90-150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)] . The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride -treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2) ]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride -treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2) ] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride N=745 % Placebo N=294 % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5 3.4 Dizziness 5 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride tablets 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride tablets 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride tablets 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride tablets 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride tablets or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride tablets was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride tablets were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1:Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury  5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): ): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in more detail below and elsewhere in the labeling: Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Hemolytic anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] In clinical trials, the most common adverse reactions with glimepiride were hypoglycemia, dizziness, asthenia, headache, and nausea. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 1 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of >=5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 1:Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in >=5% of glimepiride-treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence than with Placebo* Glimepiride Placebo N=745 N=294 % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental Injury 5.8 3.4 Flu Syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 * Glimepiride doses ranged from 1 to 16 mg administered daily Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 or 8 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride vs. placebo was 19.7% vs. 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight gain: glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride- treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Laboratory Tests: Elevated Serum Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT): ): In 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT greater than 2 times the upper limit of the reference range. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of glimepiride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Impairment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/\\316\\274L) and thrombocytopenic purpura Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The incidence of hypoglycemia with glimepiride, as documented by blood glucose values <60 mg/dL, ranged from 0.9-1.7% in two large, well-controlled, 1-year studies. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.) Glimepiride has been evaluated for safety in 2,013 patients in US controlled trials, and in 1,551 patients in foreign controlled trials. More than 1,650 of these patients were treated for at least 1 year. Adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in US placebo-controlled trials in more than 1% of patients treated with glimepiride are shown below. Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, and diarrhea have been reported, but the incidence in placebo-controlled trials was less than 1%. In rare cases, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels. In isolated instances, impair\\302\\255ment of liver function (e.g. with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may also lead to liver failure have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Allergic skin reactions, e.g., pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occur in less than 1% of treated patients. These may be transient and may disappear despite continued use of glimepiride. If those hypersensitivity reactions persist or worsen, (e.g., dyspnea, fall in blood pressure, shock), the drug should be discontinued. Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions have been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride. Cases of hyponatremia have been reported with glimepiride and all other sulfonylureas, most often in patients who are on other medications or have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion has been reported with sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, and it has been suggested that certain sulfonylureas may augment the peripheral (antidiuretic) action of ADH and/or increase release of ADH. Changes in accommodation and/or blurred vision may occur with the use of glimepiride. This is thought to be due to changes in blood glucose, and may be more pronounced when treatment is initiated. This condition is also seen in untreated diabetic patients, and may actually be reduced by treat\\302\\255ment. In placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, the incidence of blurred vision was placebo, 0.7%, and glimepiride, 0.4%. In a clinical trial, 135 pediatric patients with Type 2 diabetes were treated with glimepiride. Theprofile of adverse reactions in these patients was similar to that observed in adults. MM5"$$
"Drug Interactions"$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly ( 7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( 7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption.Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 2.1, 7.4). A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. ( 7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( 7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 2.1, 7.4). A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly (7.2). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations (7.3). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption.Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (2.1, 7.4). A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS SECTION 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose MetabolismA number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 MiconazoleA potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 InteractionsThere may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of ColesevelamColesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."$$
"Drug Interactions (See , .) CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Drug Interactions"$$
"Drug Interactions (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions.)"$$
"Drug Interactions (See CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY, DrugInteractions.)"$$
"Warnings and Precautions"$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride tablets doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens- Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( 5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( 5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( 5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( 5.5). All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1) ]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2) ]. The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications ( 5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes ( 5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. ( 5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives ( 5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug ( 5.5). All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens- Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2)]. The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: May be severe. Ensure proper patient selection, dosing, and instructions, particularly in at-risk populations (e.g., elderly, renally impaired) and when used with other anti-diabetic medications (5.1). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Postmarketing reports include anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes (5.2). Hemolytic Anemia: Can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.3). Potential Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with Sulfonylureas: Inform patient of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives (5.4). Macrovascular Outcomes: No clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug (5.5). All sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti- diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens- Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS SECTION 5.1 HypoglycemiaAll sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, can cause severe hypoglycemia [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The patient's ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia. These impairments may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important, such as driving or operating other machinery. Severe hypoglycemia can lead to unconsciousness or convulsions and may result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death. Patients must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia. Use caution when initiating and increasing glimepiride doses in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly, patients with renal impairment, patients on other anti-diabetic medications). Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, or hepatic impairment are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering medications. Hypoglycemia is also more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, or when alcohol is ingested. Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced in patients with autonomic neuropathy, the elderly, and in patients who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking medications or other sympatholytic agents. These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia before the patient is aware of the hypoglycemia. 5.2 Hypersensitivity ReactionsThere have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue glimepiride, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.3 Hemolytic AnemiaSulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.4 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality with SulfonylureasThe administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2-1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.5 Macrovascular OutcomesThere have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with glimepiride or any other anti-diabetic drug."$$
