"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Constipation or intestinal pseudo-obstruction: May present as abnormal distention, pain, nausea, or vomiting. Assess patients for constipation, particularly within 4-5 days of initial dosing or after a dose increase. (5.1) Incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction: May present as diarrhea. If obstruction is suspected, discontinue CUVPOSA and evaluate. (5.2) High ambient temperature: To reduce the risk of heat prostration, avoid high temperatures. (5.3) 5.1 Constipation or Intestinal Pseudo-obstruction Constipation is a common dose-limiting adverse reaction which sometimes leads to glycopyrrolate discontinuation [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Assess patients for constipation, particularly within 4-5 days of initial dosing or after a dose increase. Intestinal pseudo-obstruction has been reported and may present as abdominal distention, pain, nausea or vomiting. 5.2 Incomplete Mechanical Intestinal Obstruction Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy. If incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction is suspected, discontinue treatment with CUVPOSA and evaluate for intestinal obstruction. 5.3 High Ambient Temperatures In the presence of high ambient temperature, heat prostration (fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating) can occur with the use of anticholinergic drugs such as CUVPOSA. Advise patients/caregivers to avoid exposure of the patient to hot or very warm environmental temperatures. 5.4 Operating Machinery or an Automobile CUVPOSA may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. As appropriate for a given age, warn the patient not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, or performing hazardous work while taking CUVPOSA. 5.5 Anticholinergic Drug Effects Use CUVPOSA with caution in patients with conditions that are exacerbated by anticholinergic drug effects including: Autonomic neuropathy Renal disease Ulcerative colitis - Large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and for this reason may precipitate or aggravate \\\\"toxic megacolon\\\\", a serious complication of the disease. Hyperthyroidism Coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure, cardiac tachyarrhythmias, tachycardia, and hypertension Hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis, since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate this condition"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Constipation or intestinal pseudo-obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Incomplete mechanical intestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] The most common adverse reactions reported with CUVPOSA are dry mouth, vomiting, constipation, flushing, and nasal congestion. The most common adverse reactions (incidence >=30%) are dry mouth, vomiting, constipation, flushing, and nasal congestion. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merz Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 866-862-1211 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to CUVPOSA in 151 subjects, including 20 subjects who participated in an 8-week placebo-controlled study (Study 1) and 137 subjects who participated in a 24-week open-label study (six subjects who received CUVPOSA in the placebo-controlled study and 131 new subjects). Table 2 presents adverse reactions reported by >= 15% of CUVPOSA-treated subjects for the placebo-controlled clinical trial. Table 2: Adverse Reactions Occurring in >= 15% of CUVPOSA-Treated Subjects and at a Greater Frequency than Placebo in Study 1 CUVPOSA (N=20) n (%) Placebo (N=18) n (%) Dry Mouth 8 (40%) 2 (11%) Vomiting 8 (40%) 2 (11%) Constipation 7 (35%) 4 (22%) Flushing 6 (30%) 3 (17%) Nasal Congestion 6 (30%) 2 (11%) Headache 3 (15%) 1 (6%) Sinusitis 3 (15%) 1 (6%) Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 (15%) 0 Urinary Retention 3 (15%) 0 The following adverse reactions occurred at a rate of <2% of patients receiving CUVPOSA in the open-label study. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, abdominal pain, stomach discomfort, chapped lips, flatulence, retching, dry tongue General Disorders: Irritability, pain Infections: Pneumonia, sinusitis, tracheostomy infection, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection Investigations: Heart rate increase Metabolism and Nutrition: Dehydration Nervous System: Headache, convulsion, dysgeusia, nystagmus Psychiatric: Agitation, restlessness, abnormal behavior, aggression, crying, impulse control disorder, moaning, mood altered Respiratory: Increased viscosity of bronchial secretion, nasal congestion, nasal dryness Skin: Dry skin, pruritus, rash Vascular: Pallor 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of other formulations of glycopyrrolate for other indications. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Additional adverse reactions identified during postapproval use of glycopyrrolate tablets include: loss of taste and suppression of lactation."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Digoxin tablets: Use with glycopyrrolate can increase digoxin serum levels. Monitor patients and consider use of alternative dosage forms of digoxin. (7) Amantadine: Effects of glycopyrrolate may be increased with concomitant administration of amantadine. Consider decreasing the dose of glycopyrrolate during concomitant use. (7) Atenolol or metformin: Glycopyrrolate may increase serum levels of atenolol or metformin. Consider dose reduction when used with glycopyrrolate. (7) Haloperidol or levodopa: Glycopyrrolate may decrease serum levels of haloperidol or levodopa. Consider a dose increase when used with glycopyrrolate. (7) Drugs Affected by Reduced GI Transit Time Glycopyrrolate reduces GI transit time, which may result in altered release of certain drugs when formulated in delayed- or controlled-release dosage forms. The passage of potassium chloride tablets through the GI tract may be arrested or delayed with coadministration of glycopyrrolate. Solid dosage forms of potassium chloride are contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. Digoxin administered as slow dissolution oral tablets may have increased serum levels and enhanced action when administered with glycopyrrolate. Monitor patients receiving slow dissolution digoxin for increased action if glycopyrrolate is coadministered regularly. Consider the use of other oral dosage forms of digoxin (e.g., elixir or capsules). Amantadine The anticholinergic effects of glycopyrrolate may be increased with concomitant administration of amantadine. Consider decreasing the dose of glycopyrrolate during coadministration of amantadine. Drugs Whose Plasma Levels May be Increased by Glycopyrrolate Coadministration of glycopyrrolate may result in increased levels of certain drugs. Atenolol's bioavailability may be increased with coadministration of glycopyrrolate. A reduction in the atenolol dose may be needed. Metformin plasma levels may be elevated with coadministration of glycopyrrolate, increasing metformin's pharmacologic and toxic effects. Monitor clinical response to metformin with concomitant glycopyrrolate administration; consider a dose reduction of metformin if warranted. Drugs Whose Plasma Levels May be Decreased by Glycopyrrolate Coadministration of glycopyrrolate may result in decreased levels of certain drugs. Haloperidol's serum level may be decreased when coadministered with glycopyrrolate, resulting in worsening of schizophrenic symptoms, and development of tardive dyskinesia. Closely monitor patients if coadministration cannot be avoided. Levodopa's therapeutic effect may be reduced with glycopyrrolate administration. Consider increasing the dose of levodopa."$$
"Adverse Reactions Anticholinergics, including Glycopyrrolate Injection, can produce certain effects, most of which are extensions of their pharmacologic actions. Adverse reactions may include xerostomia (dry mouth); urinary hesitancy and retention; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydrasis (dilation of the pupil); cycloplegia; increased ocular tension; tacycardia; palpitation; decreased sweating; loss of taste; headache; nervousness; drowsiness; weakness; dizziness; insomnia; nausea; vomiting; impotence; suppression of lactation; constipation; bloated feeling; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic/anaphylactoide reactions; hypersensitivity; urticaria, pruritus, dry skin, and other dermal manifestations; some degree of mental confusion and/or excitement, especially in elderly persons. In addition, the following adverse events have been reported from post-marketing experience with glycopyrrolate; malignant hyperthermia; cardiac arrhythmias (including bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation); cardiac arrest; hypertension; hypotension; seizures; and respiratory arrest. Post-marketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase. Injection site reactions including pruritus, edema, erythema, and pain have also been reported. Glycopyrrolate is chemcially a quaternary ammonium compound; hence, its passage across lipid membranes, such as the blood-brain barrier is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide. For this reason the occurrence of CNS-related side effects is lower, in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Anticholinergics, including Glycopyrrolate Injection, can produce certain effects, most of which are extensions of their pharmacologic actions. Adverse reactions may include xerostomia (dry mouth); urinary hesitancy and retention; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis (dilation of the pupil); cycloplegia; increased ocular tension; tachycardia; palpitation; decreased sweating; loss of taste; headache; nervousness; drowsiness; weakness; dizziness; insomnia; nausea; vomiting; impotence; suppression of lactation; constipation; bloated feeling; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions; hypersensitivity; urticaria, pruritus, dry skin, and other dermal manifestations; some degree of mental confusion and/or excitement, especially in elderly persons. In addition, the following adverse events have been reported from post-marketing experience with glycopyrrolate: malignant hyperthermia; cardiac arrhythmias (including bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation); cardiac arrest; hypertension; hypotension; seizures; and respiratory arrest. Post-marketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase. Injection site reactions including pruritus, edema, erythema, and pain have also been reported. Glycopyrrolate is chemically a quaternary ammonium compound; hence, its passage across lipid membranes, such as the blood-brain barrier is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide. For this reason the occurrence of CNS-related side effects is lower, in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Anticholinergics, including glycopyrrolate injection, can produce certain effects, most of which are extensions of their pharmacologic actions. Adverse reactions may include xerostomia (dry mouth); urinary hesitancy and retention; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis (dilation of the pupil); cycloplegia; increased ocular tension; tachycardia; palpitation; decreased sweating; loss of taste; headache; nervousness; drowsiness; weakness; dizziness; insomnia; nausea; vomiting; impotence; suppression of lactation; constipation; bloated feeling; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions; hypersensitivity; urticaria, pruritus, dry skin, and other dermal manifestations; some degree of mental confusion and/or excitement, especially in elderly persons. In addition, the following adverse events have been reported from post-marketing experience with glycopyrrolate: malignant hyperthermia; cardiac arrhythmias (including bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation); cardiac arrest; hypertension; hypotension; seizures; and respiratory arrest. Post-marketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase. Injection site reactions including pruritus, edema, erythema, and pain have also been reported. Glycopyrrolate is chemically a quaternary ammonium compound; hence, its passage across lipid membranes, such as the blood-brain barrier is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide. For this reason the occurrence of CNS-related side effects is lower, in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-Ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001, or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Anticholinergics, including gylcopyrrolate injection, can produce certain effects, most of which are extensions of their pharmacologic actions. Adverse reactions may include xerostomia (dry mouth); urinary hesitancy and retention; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis (dilation of the pupil); cycloplegia; increased ocular tension; tachycardia; palpitation; decreased sweating; loss of taste; headache; nervousness; drowsiness; weakness; dizziness; insomnia; nausea; vomiting; impotence; suppression of lactation; constipation; bloated feeling; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions; hypersensitivity; urticaria, pruritus, dry skin and other dermal manifestations; some degree of mental confusion and/or excitement, especially in elderly persons. In addition, the following adverse events have been reported from post-marketing experience with glycopyrrolate: malignant hyperthermia; cardiac arrhythmias (including bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation); cardiac arrest; hypertension; hypotension; seizures; and respiratory arrest. Postmarketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase. Injection site reactions including pruritus, edema, erythema, and pain have also been reported. Glycopyrrolate is chemically a quaternary ammonium compound; hence, its passage across lipid membranes, such as the blood-brain barrier is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide. For this reason the occurrence of CNS-related side effects is lower, in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily."$$
"Adverse Reactions Anticholinergics, including ROBINUL Injection, can produce certain effects, most of which are extensions of their pharmacologic actions. Adverse reactions may include xerostomia (dry mouth); urinary hesitancy and retention; blurred vision and photophobia due to mydriasis (dilation of the pupil); cycloplegia; increased ocular tension; tachycardia; palpitation; decreased sweating; loss of taste; headache; nervousness; drowsiness; weakness; dizziness; insomnia; nausea; vomiting; impotence; suppression of lactation; constipation; bloated feeling; severe allergic reactions including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions; hypersensitivity; urticaria, pruritus, dry skin, and other dermal manifestations; some degree of mental confusion and/or excitement, especially in elderly persons. In addition, the following adverse events have been reported from post-marketing experience with ROBINUL: malignant hyperthermia; cardiac arrhythmias (including bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation); cardiac arrest; hypertension; hypotension; seizures; and respiratory arrest. Post-marketing reports have included cases of heart block and QTc interval prolongation associated with the combined use of glycopyrrolate and an anticholinesterase. Injection site reactions including pruritus, edema, erythema, and pain have also been reported. ROBINUL is chemically a quaternary ammonium compound; hence, its passage across lipid membranes, such as the blood-brain barrier is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide. For this reason the occurrence of CNS-related side effects is lower, in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily."$$
"Drug Interactions The concurrent use of glycopyrrolate injection with other anticholinergics or medications with anticholinergic activity, such as phenothiazines, antiparkinson drugs, or tricyclic antidepressants, may intensify the antimuscarinic effects and may result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects. Concomitant administration of glycopyrrolate injection and potassium chloride in a wax matrix may increase the severity of potassium chloride-induced gastrointestinal lesions as a result of a slower gastrointestinal transit time."$$
"Drug Interactions The concurrent use of Glycopyrrolate Injection with other anticholinergics or medications with anticholinergic activity, such as phenothiazines, antiparkinson drugs, or tricyclic antidepressants, may intensify the antimuscarinic effects and may result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects. Concomitant administration of Glycopyrrolate Injection and potassium chloride in a wax matrix may increase the severity of potassium chloride-induced gastrointestinal lesions as a result of a slower gastrointestinal transit time."$$
