
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Mild central nervous system stimulation, especially in those patients who are hypersensitive to sympathomimetic drugs, may occur. Nervousness, excitability, restlessness, dizziness, weakness, and insomnia may also occur. Headache and drowsiness have also been reported. Large doses may cause lightheadedness, nausea and/or vomiting. Sympathomemitic drugs have also been associated with certain untoward reactions including fear, anxiety, tenseness, anxiety, restlessness, tremor, weakness, pallor, respiratory difficulty, dysuria, insomnia, hallucination, convulsion, CNS depression, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently observed adverse reactions with dihydrocodeine include light-headedness, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, fatigue, sedation, sweating, nausea, vomiting, constipation, pruritis, and skin reactions. With the exception of constipation, tolerance develops to most of these effects. Other reactions that have been observed with dihydrocodeine or opioids include respiratory depression, orthostatic hypotension, cough suppression, confusion, diarrhea, miosis, abdominal pain, dry mouth, indigestion, anorexia, spasm of biliary tract, and urinary retention. Physical and psychological dependence are possibilities. Hypersensitivity reactions (include anaphylactoid reactions), hallucinations, vivid dreams, granulomatous interstitial nephritis, severe narcosis and acute renal failure have been reported rarely during dihydrocodeine administration. Other reactions observed with the ingredients in this product include lassitude, nausea, giddiness, dryness of mouth, blurred vision, cardiac palpitations, flushing, increased irritability or excitement (especially in children)."$$
"Drug Interactions: General: Sympathomimetic amines may reduce the antihypertensive effects of methyldopa, mecamylamine, reserpine, and veratrum alkaloids. Other CNS Depressants: Patients receiving other opioid analgesics, sedatives or hypnotics, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, centrally acting anti-emetics, phenothiazines or other tranquilizers, or alcohol concomitantly with this product may exhibit additive depressant effects on the central nervous system. When such combination therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Concomitant use of dihydrocodeine with alcohol and other CNS depressants may have an additive effect. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors: Dihydrocodeine, like all opioids, interact with monoamine oxidase inhibitors causing central nervous system excitation and hypertension. MAO inhibitors and beta-adrenergic blockers increase the effects of sympathomimetics."$$
