
"Adverse Reactions Following the administration in doses adequate for the treatment of an acute malarial attack, mild and transient headache, dizziness and gastrointestinal complaints (diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, abdominal cramps and, on rare occasions, vomiting) may occur. Cardiomyopathy has been rarely reported with high daily dosages of hydroxychloroquine."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Following the administration in doses adequate for the treatment of an acute malarial attack, mild and transient headache, dizziness, and gastrointestinal complaints (diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, abdominal cramps and, on rare occasions, vomiting) may occur. Cardiomyopathy has been rarely reported with high daily dosages of hydroxychloroquine."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Following the administration in doses adequate for the treatment of an acute malarial attack, mild and transient headache, dizziness, and gastrointestinal complaints (diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, abdominal cramps and, on rare occasions, vomiting) may occur. Cardiomyopathy has been rarely reported with high daily dosages of hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Following the administration in doses adequate for the treatment of an acute malarial attack, mild and transient headache, dizziness, and gastrointestinal complaints (diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, abdominal cramps and, on rare occasions, vomiting) may occur. Cardiomyopathy has been rarely reported with high daily dosages of hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nervousness, emotional lability, psychosis, suicidal behavior. Psychiatric disorders: Dizziness, headache, convulsions have been reported with this class of drugs. Nervous system disorders: Retinopathy with changes in pigmentation and visual field defects have been reported. In its early form, it appears reversible on discontinuation of hydroxychloroquine. If allowed to develop, there may be a risk of progression even after treatment withdrawal. Cases of maculopathies and macular degeneration have been reported and may be irreversible. Eye disorders: Bullous eruptions including very rare cases of Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, photosensitivity and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Psychiatric disorders: Nervousness, emotional lability, psychosis, suicidal behavior. Nervous system disorders: Dizziness, headache, and convulsions have been reported with this class of drugs. Eye disorders: Retinopathy with changes in pigmentation and visual field defects have been reported. In its early form, it appears reversible on discontinuation of hydroxychloroquine. If allowed to develop, there may be a risk of progression even after treatment withdrawal. Cases of maculopathies and macular degeneration have been reported and may be irreversible. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Bullous eruptions including very rare cases of Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, photosensitivity, and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Psychiatric disorders: Nervousness, emotional lability, psychosis, suicidal behavior. Nervous system disorders: Dizziness, headache, convulsions and extrapyramidal disorders such as dystonia, dyskinesia, and tremor (see WARNINGS, General) have been reported with this class of drugs. Eye disorders: Retinopathy with changes in pigmentation and visual field defects have been reported. In its early form, it appears reversible on discontinuation of hydroxychloroquine. If allowed to develop, there may be a risk of progression even after treatment withdrawal. Cases of maculopathies and macular degeneration have been reported and may be irreversible. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Bullous eruptions including very rare cases of Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, photosensitivity, and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Psychiatric disorders: Nervousness, emotional lability, psychosis, suicidal behavior. Nervous system disorders: Dizziness, headache, convulsions have been reported with this class of drugs. Eye disorders: Retinopathy with changes in pigmentation and visual field defects have been reported. In its early form, it appears reversible on discontinuation of hydroxychloroquine. If allowed to develop, there may be a risk of progression even after treatment withdrawal. Cases of maculopathies and macular degeneration have been reported and may be irreversible. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Bullous eruptions including very rare cases of Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, photosensitivity and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported."$$
