
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may produce constipation. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory Depression: Hydrocodone may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Dermatological: Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets may produce constipation. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory Depression: Hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Postmarketing events seen in children under 6 years of age include accidental overdose, bronchopneumonia, coma, cyanosis, death, death neonatal, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, respiratory arrest, and respiratory depression. Postmarketing events seen in patients older than 6 years of age include accidental overdose, cardio-respiratory arrest, death due to drug toxicity, non-accidental overdosage, and overdosage. Dermatological: Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets may produce constipation. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory Depression: Hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets may produce doserelated respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE). Use of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets in children less than 6 years of age has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Overdose with hyodrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets in children 6 years of age and older, in adolescents, and in adults has been associated with fatal respiratory depression. Postmarketing events seen in children under 6 years of age include accidental overdose, bronchopneumonia, coma, cyanosis, death, death neonatal, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, respiratory arrest, and respiratory depression. Postmarketing events seen in patients older than 6 years of age include accidental overdose, cardio-respiratory arrest, death due to drug toxicity, non-accidental overdose, and overdose. Dermatological: Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of TUSSIGON may produce constipation. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory Depression: TUSSIGON may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE ). Dermatological: Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS CNS: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration may produce constipation. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory Depression: This product may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (See OVERDOSAGE ). Dermatological: Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA- 1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Central Nervous System Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may produce constipation. Genitourinary System Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory System Hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE ). Dermatological Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Central Nervous System Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may produce constipation. Genitourinary System Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory System Hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (see OVERDOSAGE ). Dermatological Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Wockhardt USA, LLC at 1-800-445-4290 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Central Nervous System Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System Nausea and vomiting may occur; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may produce constipation. Genitourinary System Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates. Respiratory Depression Hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide syrup may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers (See OVERDOSAGE ). Dermatological Skin rash, pruritus."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents or other Central Nervous System (CNS) depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide syrup may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents or other Central Nervous System (CNS) depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with this product may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone."$$
"Drug Interactions: Patients receiving narcotics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with TUSSIGON may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressants or hydrocodone."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and homatropine methylbromide tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressants or hydrocodone."$$
