"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 1.Reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression may occur, with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Consider periodic evaluations for HPA axis suppression if hydrocortisone butyrate is applied to large surface areas or used under occlusion. If HPA axis suppression is noted, reduce the application frequency, discontinue use, or switch to a lower potency corticosteroid. (5.1, 8.4) 2.Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. (5.1, 8.4) 3.Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios. (5.1, 8.4) 4.Initiate appropriate therapy if concomitant skin infections develop. (5.2) 5.Discontinue use if irritation develops. (5.3) 5.1 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) Axis Suppression Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. Studies conducted in pediatric subjects demonstrated reversible HPA axis suppression after use of hydrocortisone butyrate. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of hydrocortisone butyrate due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Patients applying a topical corticosteroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be considered for periodic evaluation of the HPA axis. This may be done by using cosyntropin (ACTH1-24) stimulation testing (CST). If HPA axis suppression is noted, the frequency of application should be reduced or the drug should be withdrawn, or a less potent corticosteroid should be substituted. Signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids. 5.2 Concomitant Skin Infections If skin infections are present or develop, an appropriate antifungal, antibacterial or antiviral agent should be used. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, use of hydrocortisone butyrate should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled. 5.3 Skin Irritation Hydrocortisone butyrate may cause local skin adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. If irritation develops, hydrocortisone butyrate should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noticing a clinical exacerbation. Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate patch testing."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Only for topical use for recurrent herpes labialis on the lips and around the mouth. (5) 5.1 General XERESE is intended for cutaneous use only for herpes labialis of the lips and around the mouth. XERESE should not be used in the eye, inside the mouth or nose, or on the genitals. There are other orofacial lesions, including bacterial and fungal infections, which may be difficult to distinguish from a cold sore. Patients should be encouraged to seek medical advice when a cold sore fails to heal within 2 weeks. XERESE has a potential for irritation and contact sensitization [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression may occur, with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Consider periodic evaluations for HPA axis suppression if Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% is applied to large surface areas or used under occlusion. If HPA axis suppression is noted, reduce the application frequency, discontinue use, or switch to a lower potency corticosteroid. (5.1, 8.4) -Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. (5.1, 8.4) -Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios. (5.1, 8.4) -Initiate appropriate therapy if concomitant skin infections develop. (5.2) 5.1 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) Axis Suppression Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. Studies conducted in pediatric subjects demonstrated reversible HPA axis suppression after use of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1%. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Patients applying a topical corticosteroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be considered for periodic evaluation of the HPA axis. This may be done by using cosyntropin (ACTH1-24) stimulation testing (CST). Minimize systemic corticosteroid effects by mitigating the risk factors for increased systemic absorption and using Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% as recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. If HPA axis suppression is noted, the frequency of application should be reduced or the drug should be withdrawn, or a less potent corticosteroid should be substituted. Signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.2 Concomitant Skin Infections If skin infections are present or develop, an appropriate antifungal, antibacterial or antiviral agent should be used. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, use of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noticing a clinical exacerbation. Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate patch testing. Discontinue Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% if the diagnosis is established [ see Adverse Reactions (6)].",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression may occur, with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Consider periodic evaluations for HPA axis suppression if Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% is applied to large surface areas or used under occlusion. If HPA axis suppression is noted, reduce the application frequency, discontinue use, or switch to a lower potency corticosteroid. (5.1, 8.4) -Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. (5.1, 8.4) -Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios. (5.1, 8.4) -Initiate appropriate therapy if concomitant skin infections develop. (5.2) -Discontinue use if irritation develops. (5.3) 5.1 Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) Axis Suppression Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. Studies conducted in pediatric subjects demonstrated reversible HPA axis suppression after use of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1%. Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Patients applying a topical corticosteroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be considered for periodic evaluation of the HPA axis. This may be done by using cosyntropin (ACTH1-24) stimulation testing (CST). If HPA axis suppression is noted, the frequency of application should be reduced or the drug should be withdrawn, or a less potent corticosteroid should be substituted. Signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids. 5.2 Concomitant Skin Infections If skin infections are present or develop, an appropriate antifungal, antibacterial or antiviral agent should be used. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, use of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled. 5.3 Skin Irritation Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% may cause local skin adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. If irritation develops, Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noticing a clinical exacerbation. Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate patch testing."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression may occur, with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency. Consider periodic evaluations for HPA axis suppression if Locoid Lipocream(R) is applied to large surface areas or used under occlusion. If HPA axis suppression is noted, reduce the application frequency, discontinue use, or switch to a lower potency corticosteroid. (5.1,8.4). -Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may also include manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. (5.1,8.4). -Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios. (5.1,8.4). -Initiate appropriate therapy if concomitant skin infections develop. (5.2) 5.1 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) Axis Suppression Systemic effects of topical corticosteroids may include reversible HPA axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria. Studies conducted in pediatric subjects demonstrated reversible HPA axis suppression after use of Locoid Lipocream(R). Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of Locoid Lipocream(R) due to their larger skin surface-to-body-mass ratios [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Patients applying a topical corticosteroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be considered for periodic evaluation of the HPA axis. This may be done by using cosyntropin (ACTH1-24) stimulation testing (CST). Minimize systemic corticosteroid effects by mitigating the risk factors for increased systemic absorption and using Locoid Lipocream(R) as recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. If HPA axis suppression is noted, the frequency of application should be reduced or the drug should be withdrawn, or a less potent corticosteroid should be substituted. Signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.2 Concomitant Skin Infections If skin infections are present or develop, an appropriate antifungal, antibacterial or antiviral agent should be used. If a favorable response does not occur promptly, use of Locoid Lipocream(R) should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noticing a clinical exacerbation. Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate patch testing. Discontinue Locoid Lipocream(R) if the diagnosis is established [ see Adverse Reactions (6)].",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: 1.HPA axis suppression. This has been observed in pediatric subjects using hydrocortisone butyrate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] 2.Concomitant skin infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] 3.Skin irritation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The most common adverse reactions (>=1%) are HPA axis suppression and application site reactions. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA at 1 (888)721-7115 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience: Adults The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, drying, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience: Pediatrics Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety data derived from hydrocortisone butyrate clinical trials reflect exposure to hydrocortisone butyrate twice daily for up to four weeks in separate clinical trials involving pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. Adverse reactions shown in the tables below include those for which there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship to hydrocortisone butyrate. Table 1. Frequency of adverse reactions in pediatric subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis Hydrocortisone butyrate (N=131) Vehicle (N=133) Application site reactions, including application site folliculitis, irritation, dermatitis, or erythema 1.5% 1.5% Acne 0.8% 0.0% Telangiectasia 0.0% 0.8% 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of hydrocortisone butyrate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Skin: Erythema, rash and application site irritation."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -HPA axis suppression. This has been observed in pediatric subjects using Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] -Concomitant skin infections [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Allergic contact dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The most common adverse reactions (>=1%) are application site reactions. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1-800-321-4576 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety data derived from Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% clinical trials reflect exposure to Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% twice daily for up to four weeks in separate clinical trials involving pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. Adverse reactions shown in the table below include those for which there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship to Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1%. Table 1. Frequency of adverse reactions in pediatric subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid), 0.1% (n=131) Vehicle (n=133) Application site reactions, including application site folliculitis, irritation, dermatitis, erythema 1.5% 1.5% Acne 0.8% 0.0% Telangiectasia 0.0% 0.8% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, drying, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -HPA axis suppression. This has been observed in pediatric subjects using Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] -Concomitant skin infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -Skin irritation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] The most common adverse reactions (>=1%) are HPA axis suppression and application site reactions. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Metacon Labs at 1-888-375-0888 and www.metaconlabs.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience: Adults The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, drying, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience: Pediatrics Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety data derived from Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% clinical trials reflect exposure to Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1% twice daily for up to four weeks in separate clinical trials involving pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. Adverse reactions shown in the table below include those for which there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship to Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1%. Table 1. Frequency of adverse reactions in pediatric subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1%. (n=131) Vehicle(n=133) Application site reactions, including application site folliculitis, irritation, dermatitis, or erythema 1.5% 1.5% Acne 0.8% 0.0% Telangiectasia 0.0% 0.8% 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1%. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Skin: Erythema, Rash and Application site irritation."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -HPA axis suppression. This has been observed in pediatric subjects using Locoid Lipocream(R)[ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] -Concomitant skin infections [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Allergic contact dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The most common adverse reactions (>=1%) are application site reactions. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1-800-321-4576 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety data derived from Locoid Lipocream(R) clinical trials reflect exposure to Locoid Lipocream(R) twice daily for up to four weeks in separate clinical trials involving pediatric subjects 3 months to 18 years of age with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. Adverse reactions shown in the table below include those for which there is some basis to believe there is a causal relationship to Locoid Lipocream(R). Table 1. Frequency of adverse reactions in pediatric subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis Locoid Lipocream(R) (N=131) Vehicle (N=133) Application site reactions, including application site folliculitis, irritation, dermatitis, erythema 1.5% 1.5% Acne 0.8% 0.0% Telangiectasia 0.0% 0.8% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, drying, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following most common adverse reactions (<1%) were local skin reactions: -Drying or flaking of the skin; burning or tingling, erythema; pigmentation changes; application site reactions including signs and symptoms of inflammation. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1-800-321-4576 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates observed cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical trials and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety data derived from XERESE clinical trials reflect exposure to XERESE in 1056 subjects with recurrent herpes labialis treated 5 times daily for 5 days. The most common adverse reactions (<1%) were local skin reactions, and occurred in the area of the application site, including: 1.Drying or flaking of the skin; burning or tingling following application; erythema; pigmentation changes; application site reaction including signs and symptoms of inflammation. Contact dermatitis following application has been observed when applied under occlusion in dermal safety trials. Where contact sensitivity tests have been conducted, the reactive substances were hydrocortisone or a component of the cream base. A trial enrolling 225 healthy adults was conducted to evaluate the contact sensitization potential of XERESE using repeat insult patch testing methodology. Of 205 evaluable subjects, one confirmed case (0.5%) of sensitization to hydrocortisone and 2 additional cases (1.0%) of possible sensitization to the XERESE base were identified. Additionally, one subject developed a contact allergy in the photosafety study to propylene glycol, one of the inactive ingredients of the cream base. Dermal tolerance was assessed in a 21-day cumulative irritation trial in 36 healthy subjects. XERESE, its cream base and Zovirax(R) (acyclovir) Cream 5% all showed a high and cumulative irritation potential under occlusive and semiocclusive conditions. Photoallergic potential and phototoxicity were assessed in two trials in 50 and 30 healthy volunteers, respectively. No photoallergic or phototoxicity potential was identified for XERESE."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been performed with XERESE. No drug interaction studies have been performed with XERESE.(7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions with hydrocortisone butyrate."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions with Hydrocortisone Butyrate Cream (lipid) 0.1%."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: During, immediately, or following application of product, there may be transient stinging or burning from open areas of skin, or transient blanching (lightening), or erythema (redness) of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: During or immediately following application of Ana-Lex(TM) there may be transient stinging or burning from open areas of skin, or transient blanching (lightening) or erythema (redness) of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: During or immediately following application of product, there may be transient stinging or burning from open areas of skin, or transient blanching (lightening), or erythema (redness) of the skin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream USP, 0.2% The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients one month to 2 years of age (n=29), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP, 0.2%, was approximately 21%. Reported reactions included stinging (10%), eczema (7%), fungal infection (3%), and gastrointestinal disorder (3%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age (n=153), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP, 0.2%, was approximately 10%. Reported reactions included stinging (3%), burning skin (2%), infection (Body as a Whole) (2%). Skin irritation, eczema, pruritus, application site reaction, rash, rash maculopapular, and dry skin were all reported at incidences of approximately 1%. Hydrocortisone Valerate Ointment USP, 0.2% In controlled clinical trials, the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of hydrocortisone valerate ointment USP, 0.2% was approximately 12%. These included worsening of condition (2%), transient itching (2%), irritation (1%) and redness (1%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric atopic dermatitis patients 2 through 12 years of age (n=64), the incidence of adverse experiences was approximately 28.1%, which is higher than that seen in adult patients. Reported reactions included eczema (12.5%), pruritis (6%), stinging (2%), and dry skin (2%). Patients were not specifically evaluated for signs of atrophy (thinning, telangiectasia, erythema). No studies were performed to assess adrenal suppression and/or growth suppression. The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocortisone Valerate Cream USP, 0.2%The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients one month to 2 years of age (n=29), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP, 0.2%, was approximately 21%. Reported reactions included stinging (10%), eczema (7%), fungal infection (3%), and gastrointestinal disorder (3%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age (n=153), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream USP, 0.2%, was approximately 10%. Reported reactions included stinging (3%), burning skin (2%), infection (Body as a Whole) (2%). Skin irritation, eczema, pruritus, application site reaction, rash, rash maculopapular, and dry skin were all reported at incidences of approximately 1%. Hydrocortisone Valerate Ointment USP, 0.2%In controlled clinical trials, the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of hydrocortisone valerate ointment USP, 0.2% was approximately 12%. These included worsening of condition (2%), transient itching (2%), irritation (1%) and redness (1%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric atopic dermatitis patients 2 through 12 years of age (n=64), the incidence of adverse experiences was approximately 28.1%, which is higher than that seen in adult patients. Reported reactions included eczema (12.5%), pruritis (6%), stinging (2%), and dry skin (2%). Patients were not specifically evaluated for signs of atrophy (thinning, telangiectasia, erythema). No studies were performed to assess adrenal suppression and/or growth suppression. The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocortisone Valerate Ointment USP, 0.2% In controlled clinical trials, the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of hydrocortisone valerate ointment USP, 0.2% was approximately 12%. These included worsening of condition (2%), transient itching (2%), irritation (1%) and redness (1%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric atopic dermatitis patients 2 through 12 years of age (n=64), the incidence of adverse experiences was approximately 28.1%, which is higher than that seen in adult patients. Reported reactions included eczema (12.5%), pruritis (6%), stinging (2%), and dry skin (2%). Patients were not specifically evaluated for signs of atrophy (thinning, telangiectasia, erythema). No studies were performed to assess adrenal suppression and/or growth suppression. The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact G&W Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-922-1038 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials, the total incidence of adverse reactions associated with the use of Westcort Ointment was approximately 12%. These included worsening of condition (2%), transient itching (2%), irritation (1%) and redness (1%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric atopic dermatitis patients 2 through 12 years of age (n=64), the incidence of adverse experiences was approximately 28.1%, which is higher than that seen in adult patients. Reported reactions included eczema (12.5%), pruritis (6%), stinging (2%), and dry skin (2%). Patients were not specifically evaluated for signs of atrophy (thinning, telangiectasia, erythema). No studies were performed to assess adrenal suppression and/or growth suppression. The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, dryness, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neomycin occasionally causes skin sensitization. Ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have also been reported (see WARNINGS). Adverse reactions have occurred with topical use of antibiotic combinations including neomycin and polymyxin B. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. The reaction occurring most often is allergic sensitization. In one clinical study, using a 20% neomycin patch, neomycin-induced allergic skin reactions occurred in two of 2,175 (0.09%) individuals in the general population.1 In another study, the incidence was found to be approximately 1%.2 The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, especially under occlusive dressings: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. When steroid preparations are used for long periods of time in intertriginous areas or over extensive body areas, with or without occlusive non-permeable dressings, striae may occur; also there exists the possibility of systemic side effects when steroid preparations are used over large areas or for a long period of time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients one month to 2 years of age (n=29), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream, 0.2% was approximately 21%. Reported reactions included stinging (10%), eczema (7%), fungal infection (3%), and gastrointestinal disorder (3%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age (n=153), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream, 0.2% was approximately 10%. Reported reactions included stinging (3%), burning skin (2%), infection (Body as a Whole) (2%). Skin irritation, eczema, pruritus, application site reaction, rash, rash maculopapular, and dry skin were all reported at incidences of approximately 1%."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, foliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: 1. Burning 6. Hypertrichosis 11. Maceration of the skin 2. Itching 7. Acneiform eruptions 12. Secondary infection 3. Irritation 8. Hypopigmentation 13. Skin Atrophy 4. Dryness 9. Perioral dermatitis 14. Striae 5. Folliculitis 10. Allergic contact dermatitis 15. Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: adverse reaction list"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: adverse reactions image"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Adverse reactions list"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Dryness Perioral dermatitis Skin atrophy Itching Folliculitis Hypertrichosis Allergic contact dermatitis Striae Irritation Acneiform eruptions Maceration of the skin Miliaria Hypopigmentation Secondary infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin Atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, foliculitiis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Itching Irritation Dryness Foliculitis Hypertrichosis Acneiform eruptions Hypopigmentation Perioral dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis Maceration of the skin Secondary infection Skin atrophy Striae Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Rising Pharmaceuticals at 1-866-562-4597 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Itching Irritation Dryness Folliculitis Hypertrichosis Acneiform eruptions Hypopigmentation Perioral dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis Maceration of the skin Secondary infection Skin atrophy Striae Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Itching Irritation Dryness Folliculitis Hypertrichosis Acneiform eruptions Hypopigmentation Perioral dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis Maceration of the skin Secondary infection Skin atrophy Striae Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Image 2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: image description"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: itching, burning, skin irritation."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressing. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids, but may occur more frequently with use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence beginning with column 1: Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the skin Itching Acneiform eruptions Secondary infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin atrophy Dryness Perioral dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic contact dermatitis Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Burning Itching Irritation Dryness Folliculitis Hypertrichosis Acneiform eruptions Hypopigmentation Perioral dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis Maceration of the skin Secondary infection Skin atrophy Striae Miliaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: Image 3"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients one month to 2 years of age (n=29), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream, 0.2% was approximately 21%. Reported reactions included stinging (10%), eczema (7%), fungal infection (3%), and gastrointestinal disorder (3%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age (n=153), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream, 0.2% was approximately 10%. Reported reactions included stinging (3%), burning skin (2%), infection (Body as a Whole) (2%). Skin irritation, eczema, pruritus, application site reaction, rash, rash maculopapular, and dry skin were all reported at incidences of approximately 1%."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria. In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients one month to 2 years of age (n=29), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream 0.2%, was approximately 21%. Reported reactions included stinging (10%), eczema (7%), fungal infection (3%), and gastrointestinal disorder (3%). In controlled clinical studies involving pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age (n=153), the incidence of adverse experiences, regardless of relationship to the use of hydrocortisone valerate cream, 0.2%, was approximately 10%. Reported reactions included stinging (3%), burning skin (2%), infection (Body as a Whole) (2%). Skin irritation, eczema, pruritus, application site reaction, rash, rash maculopapular, and dry skin were all reported at incidences of approximately 1%. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact G&W Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-922-1038 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions reported for Pandel(R) (hydrocortisone probutate) Cream, 0.1% have included burning in 4, stinging in 2, and moderate paresthesia in 1 out of 226 patients. The following local adverse reactions are reported with topical corticosteroids, and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infections, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been a few reports of rash and hypersensitivity as well as thinning of the skin with easy bruising. The following local adverse reactions have also been reported with topical corticosteroids and iodochlorhydroxyquin especially under occlusive dressings; burning; itching; irritation; dryness; folliculitis; blistering, peeling, redness, swelling; hypertrichosis; acneiform eruptions; hypopigmentation; perioral dermatitis; allergic contact dermatitis; maceration of the skin, secondary infection; skin atrophy; striae; miliaria or other signs of irritation not present before therapy. Discontinue therapy if any untoward reaction occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: There have been a few reports of rash and hypersensitivity as well as thinning of the skin with easy bruising. The following local adverse reactions have also been reported with topical corticosteroids and iodochlorhydroxyquin especially under occlusive dressings; burning; itching; irritation; dryness; folliculitis; blistering, peeling, redness, swelling; hypertrichosis; acneiform eruptions; hypopigmentation; perioral dermatitis; allergic contact dermatitis; maceration of the skin, secondary infection; skin atrophy; striae; miliaria or other signs of irritation not present before therapy. Discontinue therapy if any untoward reaction occurs."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS General: Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitaryadrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients. Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids, use over large surface areas, prolonged use, and the addition of occlusive dressings. Therefore, patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area and under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests. If HPA axis suppression is noted, an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug, to reduce the frequency of application, or to substitute a less potent steroid. Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug. Infrequently, signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur, requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids. Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity. (See Precautions-Pediatric Use.) If irritation develops, topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. In the presence of dermatological infections, the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted. If a favorable response does not occur promptly the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled."$$
