"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Embryo-Fetal toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise of potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (5.3, 8.1, 8.3) -Vasculitic toxicities: Institute treatment and discontinue DROXIA if this occurs. (5.4) -Live Vaccinations: Avoid live vaccine use in a patient taking DROXIA. (5.5) -Risks with concomitant use of antiretroviral drugs: Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and neuropathy have occurred. Monitor for signs and symptoms in patients with HIV infection using antiretroviral drugs; discontinue DROXIA, and implement treatment. (5.6) 5.1 Myelosuppression Hydroxyurea causes severe myelosuppression. Treatment with hydroxyurea should not be initiated if bone marrow function is markedly depressed. Bone marrow suppression may occur, and leukopenia is generally its first and most common manifestation. Thrombocytopenia and anemia occur less often, and are seldom seen without a preceding leukopenia. Some patients, treated at the recommended initial dose of 15 mg/kg/day, have experienced severe or life-threatening myelosuppression. Evaluate hematologic status prior to and during treatment with DROXIA. Provide supportive care and modify dose or discontinue DROXIA as needed. Recovery from myelosuppression is usually rapid when therapy is interrupted. 5.2 Malignancies Hydroxyurea is a human carcinogen. In patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea for myeloproliferative disorders, secondary leukemia has been reported. Skin cancer has also been reported in patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea. Advise protection from sun exposure and monitor for the development of secondary malignancies. 5.3 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Based on the mechanism of action and findings in animals, DROXIA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Hydroxyurea was embryotoxic and teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses 0.8 times and 0.3 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human daily dose on a mg/m2 basis. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with DROXIA for at least 6 months after therapy. Advise males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with DROXIA for at least 1 year after therapy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . 5.4 Vasculitic Toxicities Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxyurea. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy. If cutaneous vasculitic ulcers occur, institute treatment and discontinue DROXIA. 5.5 Live Vaccinations Avoid use of live vaccine in patients taking DROXIA. Concomitant use of DROXIA with a live virus vaccine may potentiate the replication of the virus and/or may increase the adverse reaction of the vaccine because normal defense mechanisms may be suppressed by DROXIA. Vaccination with live vaccines in a patient receiving DROXIA may result in severe infection. Patient's antibody response to vaccines may be decreased. Consider consultation with a specialist. 5.6 Risks with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and peripheral neuropathy have occurred when hydroxyurea was administered concomitantly with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine and stavudine [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.7 Macrocytosis DROXIA may cause macrocytosis, which is self-limiting, and is often seen early in the course of treatment. The morphologic change resembles pernicious anemia, but is not related to vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency. This may mask the diagnosis of pernicious anemia. Prophylactic administration of folic acid is recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Embryo-fetal toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise of potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (5.3, 8.1) -Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities: Institute treatment and discontinue hydroxyurea capsules if this occurs. (5.4) -Risks with concomitant use of antiretroviral drugs: Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity and neuropathy have occurred. Monitor for signs and symptoms in patients with HIV infection using antiretroviral drugs; discontinue hydroxyurea capsules, and implement treatment. (5.5) 5.1 Myelosuppression Hydroxyurea causes severe myelosuppression. Treatment with hydroxyurea should not be initiated if bone marrow function is markedly depressed. Bone marrow suppression may occur, and leukopenia is generally its first and most common manifestation. Thrombocytopenia and anemia occur less often, and are seldom seen without a preceding leukopenia. Some patients, treated at the recommended initial dose of 15 mg/kg/day, have experienced severe or life-threatening myelosuppression. Evaluate hematologic status prior to and during treatment with hydroxyurea capsules. Provide supportive care and modify dose or discontinue hydroxyurea capsules as needed. Recovery from myelosuppression is usually rapid when therapy is interrupted. 5.2 Malignancies Hydroxyurea is a human carcinogen. In patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea for myeloproliferative disorders, secondary leukemia has been reported. Skin cancer has also been reported in patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea. Advise protection from sun exposure and monitor for the development of secondary malignancies. 5.3 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Hydroxyurea may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Hydroxyurea is genotoxic. Hydroxyurea has been demonstrated to be a potent teratogen in a wide variety of animal models, including mice, hamsters, cats, miniature swine, dogs, and monkeys at doses within 1-fold of the human dose given on a mg/m2 basis. Hydroxyurea is embryotoxic and causes fetal malformations at 180 mg/kg/day in rats and at 30 mg/kg/day in rabbits. Single doses of >=375 mg/kg to rats caused growth retardation and impaired learning ability. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with hydroxyurea capsules for at least 30 days after therapy. Females of reproductive potential should also ensure that their male partner, who is/has taken hydroxyurea capsules, uses effective contraception during and after treatment for at least 1 year after therapy. Advise males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with hydroxyurea capsules for at least 1 year after therapy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3) ]. 5.4 Vasculitic Toxicities Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxyurea. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy. If cutaneous vasculitic ulcers occur, institute treatment and discontinue hydroxyurea capsules. 5.5 Risks with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and peripheral neuropathy have occurred when hydroxyurea was administered concomitantly with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine and stavudine [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 5.6 Macrocytosis Hydroxyurea capsules may cause macrocytosis, which is self-limiting, and is often seen early in the course of treatment. The morphologic change resembles pernicious anemia, but is not related to vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency. This may mask the diagnosis of pernicious anemia. Prophylactic administration of folic acid is recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Myelosuppression: Do not give if bone marrow function is markedly depressed. Monitor hematology labs and interrupt, reduce dose as appropriate. (5.1) -Malignancies: Advise protection from sun exposure and monitor for secondary malignancies. (5.2) -Embryo-Fetal toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise of potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (5.3, 8.1, 8.3) -Vasculitic toxicities: Discontinue HYDREA and initiate treatment if this occurs. (5.4) -Live Vaccinations: Avoid live vaccine use in a patient taking HYDREA. (5.5) -Risks with concomitant use of antiretroviral drugs: Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and neuropathy have occurred. Monitor for signs and symptoms in patients with HIV infection using antiretroviral drugs; discontinue HYDREA, and implement treatment. (5.6) -Radiation recall: Monitor for skin erythema in patients who previously received radiation and manage symptomatically. (5.7) 5.1 Myelosuppression Hydroxyurea causes severe myelosuppression. Treatment with hydroxyurea should not be initiated if bone marrow function is markedly depressed. Bone marrow suppression may occur, and leukopenia is generally its first and most common manifestation. Thrombocytopenia and anemia occur less often and are seldom seen without a preceding leukopenia. Bone marrow depression is more likely in patients who have previously received radiotherapy or cytotoxic cancer chemotherapeutic agents; use hydroxyurea cautiously in such patients. Evaluate hematologic status prior to and during treatment with HYDREA. Provide supportive care and modify dose or discontinue HYDREA as needed. Recovery from myelosuppression is usually rapid when therapy is interrupted. 5.2 Malignancies Hydroxyurea is a human carcinogen. In patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea for myeloproliferative disorders, secondary leukemia has been reported. Skin cancer has also been reported in patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea. Advise protection from sun exposure and monitor for the development of secondary malignancies. 5.3 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Based on the mechanism of action and findings in animals, HYDREA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Hydroxyurea was embryotoxic and teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses 0.8 times and 0.3 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human daily dose on a mg/m2 basis. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with HYDREA for at least 6 months after therapy. Advise males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with HYDREA for at least 1 year after therapy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. 5.4 Vasculitic Toxicities Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxyurea. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy. If cutaneous vasculitic ulcers occur, institute treatment and discontinue HYDREA. 5.5 Live Vaccinations Avoid use of live vaccine in patients taking HYDREA. Concomitant use of HYDREA with a live virus vaccine may potentiate the replication of the virus and/or may increase the adverse reaction of the vaccine because normal defense mechanisms may be suppressed by HYDREA. Vaccination with live vaccines in a patient receiving HYDREA may result in severe infection. Patient's antibody response to vaccines may be decreased. Consider consultation with a specialist. 5.6 Risks with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and peripheral neuropathy have occurred when hydroxyurea was administered concomitantly with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine and stavudine [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.7 Radiation Recall Patients who have received irradiation therapy in the past may have an exacerbation of postirradiation erythema. Monitor for skin erythema in patients who previously received radiation and manage symptomatically. 5.8 Macrocytosis HYDREA may cause macrocytosis, which is self-limiting, and is often seen early in the course of treatment. The morphologic change resembles pernicious anemia, but is not related to vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency. This may mask the diagnosis of pernicious anemia. Prophylactic administration of folic acid is recommended."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Myelosuppression: Do not give if bone marrow function is markedly depressed. Monitor hematology labs and interrupt, reduce dose as appropriate. (5.1) -Malignancies: Advise protection from sun exposure and monitor for secondary malignancies. (5.2) -Embryo-fetal toxicity can cause fetal harm Advise of potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (5.3, 8.1) -Vasculitic toxicities: Discontinue hydroxyurea and initiate alternative management if this occurs. (5.4) -Risks with concomitant use of antiretroviral drugs: Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and neuropathy have occurred. Monitor for signs and symptoms in patients with HIV infection using antiretroviral drugs; discontinue hydroxyurea, and implement treatment. (5.5) -Radiation recall: Monitor for skin erythema in patients who previously received radiation and manage symptomatically. (5.6) 5.1 Myelosuppression Hydroxyurea causes severe myelosuppression. Treatment with hydroxyurea should not be initiated if bone marrow function is markedly depressed. Bone marrow suppression may occur, and leukopenia is generally its first and most common manifestation. Thrombocytopenia and anemia occur less often and are seldom seen without a preceding leukopenia. Bone marrow depression is more likely in patients who have previously received radiotherapy or cytotoxic cancer chemotherapeutic agents; use hydroxyurea cautiously in such patients. Evaluate hematologic status prior to and during treatment with hydroxyurea. Provide supportive care and modify dose or discontinue hydroxyurea as needed. Recovery from myelosuppression is usually rapid when therapy is interrupted. 5.2 Malignancies Hydroxyurea is a human carcinogen. In patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea for myeloproliferative disorders, secondary leukemia has been reported. Skin cancer has also been reported in patients receiving long-term hydroxyurea. Advise protection from sun exposure and monitor for the development of secondary malignancies. 5.3 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Hydroxyurea may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Hydroxyurea is genotoxic. Hydroxyurea has been demonstrated to be a potent teratogen in a wide variety of animal models, including mice, hamsters, cats, miniature swine, dogs, and monkeys at doses within 1-fold of the human dose given on a mg/m2 basis. Hydroxyurea is embryotoxic and causes fetal malformations at 180 mg/kg/day in rats and at 30 mg/kg/day in rabbits. Single doses of >=375 mg/kg to rats caused growth retardation and impaired learning ability. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with hydroxyurea for at least 30 days after therapy. Females of reproductive potential should also ensure that their male partner, who is/has taken hydroxyurea, uses effective contraception during and after treatment for at least 1 year after therapy. Advise males of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during and after treatment with hydroxyurea for at least 1 year after therapy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. 5.4 Vasculitic Toxicities Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxyurea. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy. If cutaneous vasculitic ulcers occur, institute treatment and discontinue of hydroxyurea. 5.5 Risks with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, and peripheral neuropathy have occurred when hydroxyurea was administered concomitantly with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine and stavudine [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.6 Radiation Recall Patients who have received irradiation therapy in the past may have an exacerbation of postirradiation erythema. Monitor for skin erythema in patients who previously received radiation and manage symptomatically. 5.7 Macrocytosis Hydroxyurea may cause macrocytosis, which is self-limiting, and is often seen early in the course of treatment. The morphologic change resembles pernicious anemia, but is not related to vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency. This may mask the diagnosis of pernicious anemia. Prophylactic administration of folic acid is recommended."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in detail in other labeling sections: -Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] - Malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -Embryo-fetal toxicity [see BOXED WARNING and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Vasculitic toxicities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4 )] -Risks with concomitant use of antiretrobiral drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Macrocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (>=30%) are hematological, gastrointestinal symptoms, and anorexia. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1-800-828-9393 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience In 299 patients treated for sickle cell anemia in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia, the most common adverse reactions were hematologic, with neutropenia, and low reticulocyte and platelet levels necessitating temporary cessation in almost all patients. Hematologic recovery usually occurred in two weeks. Other adverse reactions include hair loss, macrocytosis, bleeding, and melanonychia. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of hydroxyurea in the treatment of neoplastic diseases. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency. - Gastrointestinal disorders: stomatitis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation - Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: maculopapular rash, skin ulceration, dermatomyositis-like skin changes, peripheral and facial erythema, hyperpigmentation, atrophy of skin and nails, scaling, violet papules, and alopecia - Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, elevations in serum uric acid, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine levels - Nervous system disorders: headache, dizziness, drowsiness, disorientation, hallucinations, and convulsions - General disorders: fever, chills, malaise, edema, and asthenia - Hepatobiliary disorders: elevation of hepatic enzymes - Respiratory disorders: diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, dyspnea, and pulmonary fibrosis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in detail in other labeling sections: -Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Embryo-fetal toxicity [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Vasculitic toxicities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Risks with concomitant use of antiretroviral drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] -Macrocytosis [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (>=30%) are hematological, gastrointestinal symptoms, and anorexia. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience In 299 patients treated for sickle cell anemia in the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea in Sickle Cell Anemia, the most common adverse reactions were hematologic, with neutropenia, and low reticulocyte and platelet levels necessitating temporary cessation in almost all patients. Hematologic recovery usually occurred in two weeks. Other adverse reactions include hair loss, macrocytosis, bleeding, and melanonychia. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of hydroxyurea in the treatment of neoplastic diseases. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency. - Reproductive System and Breast disorders: azoospermia, and oligospermia - Gastrointestinal disorders: stomatitis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation - Metabolism and Nutrition disorders: anorexia - Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: maculopapular rash, skin ulceration, dermatomyositis-like skin changes, peripheral and facial erythema, hyperpigmentation, atrophy of skin and nails, scaling, violet papules, and alopecia - Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, elevations in serum uric acid, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine levels - Nervous system disorders: headache, dizziness, drowsiness, disorientation, hallucinations, and convulsions - General disorders: fever, chills, malaise, edema, and asthenia - Hepatobiliary disorders: elevation of hepatic enzymes, cholestasis, and hepatitis - Respiratory disorders: diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, dyspnea, and pulmonary fibrosis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in detail in other labeling sections: -Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Embryo-fetal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Vasculitic toxicities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Risks with concomitant use of antiretroviral drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Radiation recall [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Macrocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of hydroxyurea. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency. - Gastrointestinal disorders: stomatitis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation - Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: maculopapular rash, skin ulceration, dermatomyositis-like skin changes, peripheral and facial erythema, hyperpigmentation, atrophy of skin and nails, scaling, violet papules, and alopecia - Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, elevations in serum uric acid, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine levels - Nervous system disorders: headache, dizziness, drowsiness, disorientation, hallucinations, and convulsions - General Disorders: fever, chills, malaise, edema, and asthenia - Hepatobiliary disorders: elevation of hepatic enzymes - Respiratory disorders: diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, dyspnea, and pulmonary fibrosis Adverse reactions observed with combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy are similar to those reported with the use of hydroxyurea or radiation treatment alone. These effects primarily include bone marrow depression (anemia and leukopenia), gastric irritation, and mucositis. Almost all patients receiving an adequate course of combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy will demonstrate concurrent leukopenia. Platelet depression (<100,000 cells/mm3) has occurred in the presence of marked leukopenia. Hydroxyurea may potentiate some adverse reactions usually seen with irradiation alone, such as gastric distress and mucositis. Most common adverse reactions (>=30%) are hematological, gastrointestinal symptoms, and anorexia. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in detail in other labeling sections: -Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Embryo-fetal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -Vasculitic toxicities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Risks with concomitant use of antiretroviral drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] -Radiation recall [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] -Macrocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Most common adverse reactions (>=30%) are hematological, gastrointestinal symptoms, and anorexia. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of HYDREA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency. - Reproductive System and Breast disorders: azoospermia, and oligospermia - Gastrointestinal disorders: stomatitis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation - Metabolism and Nutrition disorders: anorexia, tumor lysis syndrome - Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: maculopapular rash, skin ulceration, dermatomyositis-like skin changes, peripheral and facial erythema, hyperpigmentation, atrophy of skin and nails, scaling, violet papules, and alopecia - Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, elevations in serum uric acid, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine levels - Nervous system disorders: headache, dizziness, drowsiness, disorientation, hallucinations, and convulsions - General Disorders: fever, chills, malaise, edema, and asthenia - Hepatobiliary disorders: elevation of hepatic enzymes, cholestasis, and hepatitis - Respiratory disorders: diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, dyspnea, and pulmonary fibrosis Adverse reactions observed with combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy are similar to those reported with the use of hydroxyurea or radiation treatment alone. These effects primarily include bone marrow depression (anemia and leukopenia), gastric irritation, and mucositis. Almost all patients receiving an adequate course of combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy will demonstrate concurrent leukopenia. Platelet depression (<100,000 cells/mm3) has occurred in the presence of marked leukopenia. HYDREA may potentiate some adverse reactions usually seen with irradiation alone, such as gastric distress and mucositis."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiretroviral drugs (7.1) 7.1 Increased Toxicity with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis In patients with HIV infection during therapy with hydroxyurea and didanosine, with or without stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis have occurred. Hydroxyurea is not indicated for the treatment of HIV infection; however, if patients with HIV infection are treated with hydroxyurea, and in particular, in combination with didanosine and/or stavudine, close monitoring for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis is recommended. Permanently discontinue therapy with hydroxyurea in patients who develop signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure resulting in death have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients with HIV infection treated with hydroxyurea and other antiretroviral drugs. Fatal hepatic events were reported most often in patients treated with the combination of hydroxyurea, didanosine, and stavudine. Avoid this combination. Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy, which was severe in some cases, has been reported in patients with HIV infection receiving hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine, with or without stavudine. 7.2 Test Interference Interference with Uric Acid, Urea, or Lactic Acid Assays Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxyurea with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactate dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid, and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxyurea."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiretroviral drugs. (7.1) 7.1 Increased Toxicity with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis In patients with HIV infection during therapy with hydroxyurea and didanosine, with or without stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis have occurred. Hydroxyurea is not indicated for the treatment of HIV infection; however, if patients with HIV infection are treated with hydroxyurea, and in particular, in combination with didanosine and/or stavudine, close monitoring for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis is recommended. Permanently discontinue therapy with hydroxyurea in patients who develop signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure resulting in death have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients with HIV infection treated with hydroxyurea and other antiretroviral drugs. Fatal hepatic events were reported most often in patients treated with the combination of hydroxyurea, didanosine, and stavudine. Avoid this combination. Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy, which was severe in some cases, has been reported in patients with HIV infection receiving hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine, with or without stavudine. 7.2 Test Interference Interference with Uric Acid, Urea, or Lactic Acid Assays Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxyurea with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactate dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid, and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxyurea."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiretroviral drugs (7) 7.1 Increased Toxicity with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis In patients with HIV infection during therapy with hydroxyurea and didanosine, with or without stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis have occurred. Hydroxyurea is not indicated for the treatment of HIV infection; however, if patients with HIV infection are treated with hydroxyurea, and in particular, in combination with didanosine and/or stavudine, close monitoring for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis is recommended. Permanently discontinue therapy with hydroxyurea in patients who develop signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure resulting in death have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients with HIV infection treated with hydroxyurea and other antiretroviral drugs. Fatal hepatic events were reported most often in patients treated with the combination of hydroxyurea, didanosine, and stavudine. Avoid this combination. Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy, which was severe in some cases, has been reported in patients with HIV infection receiving hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine, with or without stavudine. 7.2 Test Interference Interference with Uric Acid, Urea, or Lactic Acid Assays Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxyurea with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactate dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid, and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxyurea."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Antiretroviral drugs. (7) 7.1 Increased Toxicity with Concomitant Use of Antiretroviral Drugs Pancreatitis In patients with HIV infection during therapy with hydroxyurea and didanosine, with or without stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis have occurred. Hydroxyurea is not indicated for the treatment of HIV infection; however, if patients with HIV infection are treated with hydroxyurea, and in particular, in combination with didanosine and or/stavudine, close monitoring for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis is recommended. Permanently discontinue therapy with hydroxyurea in patients who develop signs and symptoms of pancreatitis. Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure resulting in death have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients with HIV infection treated with hydroxyurea and other antiretroviral durgs. Fatal hepatic events were reported most often in patients treated with the combination of hydroxyurea, didanosine, and stavudine. Avoid this combination. Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral Neuropathy, which was severe in some cases, has been reported in patients with HIV infection receiving hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral drugs, including didanosine, with or without stavudine. 7.2 Test Interference Interference with Uric Acid, Urea, or Lactic Acid Assays Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxyurea with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactate dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid, and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these patients treated with hydroxyurea."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reported adverse reactions are bone marrow depression (leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia), gastrointestinal symptoms (stomatitis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation), and dermatological reactions such as maculopapular rash, skin ulceration, dermatomyositis-like skin changes, peripheral and facial erythema. Hyperpigmentation, atrophy of skin and nails, scaling, and violet papules have been observed in some patients after several years of long-term daily maintenance therapy with hydroxyurea capsules. Skin cancer has been reported. Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxyurea. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy (see WARNINGS). Dysuria and alopecia have been reported. Large doses may produce moderate drowsiness. Neurological disturbances have occurred and were limited to headache, dizziness, disorientation, hallucinations, and convulsions. Hydroxyurea capsules may cause temporary impairment of renal tubular function accompanied by elevations in serum uric acid, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine levels. Abnormal bromsulphalein (BSP) retention has been reported. Fever, chills, malaise, edema, asthenia, and elevation of hepatic enzymes have also been reported. Adverse reactions observed with combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy are similar to those reported with the use of hydroxyurea or radiation treatment alone. These effects primarily include bone marrow depression (anemia and leukopenia), gastric irritation, and mucositis. Almost all patients receiving an adequate course of combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy will demonstrate concurrent leukopenia. Platelet depression (< 100,000 cells/mm3) has occurred in the presence of marked leukopenia. Hydroxyurea capsules may potentiate some adverse reactions usually seen with irradiation alone, such as gastric distress and mucositis. The association of hydroxyurea with the development of acute pulmonary reactions consisting of diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, fever, and dyspnea has been reported. Pulmonary fibrosis also has been reported. In HIV-infected patients who received hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral agents, in particular, didanosine plus stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis and hepatotoxicity, and severe peripheral neuropathy have been reported. Patients treated with hydroxyurea in combination with didanosine, stavudine, and indinavir in Study ACTG 5025 showed a median decline in CD4 cells of approximately 100/mm3 (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reported adverse reactions are bone marrow depression (leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia), gastrointestinal symptoms (stomatitis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation), and dermatological reactions such as maculopapular rash, skin ulceration, dermatomyositis -like skin changes, peripheral and facial erythema. Hyperpigmentation, atrophy of skin and nails, scaling and violet papules have been observed in some patients after several years of long-term daily maintenance therapy with hydroxyurea. Skin cancer has been reported. Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxyurea. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy (see WARNINGS ).Dysuria and alopecia have been reported. Large doses may produce moderate drowsiness. Neurological disturbances have occurred and were limited to headache, dizziness, disorientation, hallucinations, and convulsions. Hydroxyurea capsules, USP may cause temporary impairment of renal tubular function accompanied by elevations in serum uric acid, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine levels. Abnormal BSP retention has been reported. Fever, chills, malaise, edema, asthenia, and elevation of hepatic enzymes have also been reported. Adverse reactions observed with combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy are similar to those reported with the use of hydroxyurea or radiation treatment alone. These effects primarily include bone marrow depression (anemia and leukopenia), gastric irritation, and mucositis. Almost all patients receiving an adequate course of combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy will demonstrate concurrent leukopenia. Platelet depression (<100,000 cells/mm3) has occurred rarely and only in the presence of marked leukopenia. Hydroxyurea may potentiate some adverse reactions usually seen with irradiation alone, such as gastric distress and mucositis. The association of hydroxyurea with the development of acute pulmonary reactions consisting of diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, fever and dyspnea has been rarely reported. Pulmonary fibrosis also has been reported. In HIV-infected patients who received hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral agents, in particular, didanosine plus stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis and hepatotoxicity, and severe peripheral neuropathy have been reported. Patients treated with hydroxyurea in combination with didanosine, stavudine, and indinavir in study ACTG 5025 showed a median decline in CD4 cells of approximately 100/mm3. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS )."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reported adverse reactions are bone marrow depression (leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia), gastrointestinal symptoms (stomatitis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation), and dermatological reactions such as maculopapular rash, skin ulceration, dermatomyositis -like skin changes, peripheral and facial erythema. Hyperpigmentation, atrophy of skin and nails, scaling and violet papules have been observed in some patients after several years of long-term daily maintenance therapy with hydroxyurea. Skin cancer has been reported. Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxyurea. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy (see WARNINGS).Dysuria and alopecia have been reported. Large doses may produce moderate drowsiness. Neurological disturbances have occurred and were limited to headache, dizziness, disorientation, hallucinations, and convulsions. Hydroxyurea capsules, USP may cause temporary impairment of renal tubular function accompanied by elevations in serum uric acid, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine levels. Abnormal BSP retention has been reported. Fever, chills, malaise, edema, asthenia, and elevation of hepatic enzymes have also been reported. Adverse reactions observed with combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy are similar to those reported with the use of hydroxyurea or radiation treatment alone. These effects primarily include bone marrow depression (anemia and leukopenia), gastric irritation, and mucositis. Almost all patients receiving an adequate course of combined hydroxyurea and irradiation therapy will demonstrate concurrent leukopenia. Platelet depression (<100,000 cells/mm3) has occurred rarely and only in the presence of marked leukopenia. Hydroxyurea may potentiate some adverse reactions usually seen with irradiation alone, such as gastric distress and mucositis. The association of hydroxyurea with the development of acute pulmonary reactions consisting of diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, fever and dyspnea has been rarely reported. Pulmonary fibrosis also has been reported. In HIV-infected patients who received hydroxyurea in combination with antiretroviral agents, in particular, didanosine plus stavudine, fatal and nonfatal pancreatitis and hepatotoxicity, and severe peripheral neuropathy have been reported. Patients treated with hydroxyurea in combination with didanosine, stavudine, and indinavir in study ACTG 5025 showed a median decline in CD4 cells of approximately 100/mm3. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS.)"$$
"Drug Interactions Prospective studies on the potential for hydroxyurea to interact with other drugs have not been performed. Concurrent use of hydroxyurea and other myelosuppressive agents or radiation therapy may increase the likelihood of bone marrow depression or other adverse events. (See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS.) Since hydroxyurea may raise the serum uric acid level, dosage adjustment of uricosuric medication may be necessary."$$
"Drug Interactions Prospective studies on the potential for hydroxyurea to interact with other drugs have not been performed. Concurrent use of hydroxyurea and other myelosuppressive agents or radiation therapy may increase the likelihood of bone marrow depression or other adverse events (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS). Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxyurea with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactate dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxyurea."$$
"Drug Interactions Prospective studies on the potential for hydroxyurea to interact with other drugs have not been performed. Concurrent use of hydroxyurea and other myelosuppressive agents or radiation therapy may increase the likelihood of bone marrow depression or other adverse events. (See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS.) Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxyurea with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactate dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxyurea."$$
