"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS DILAUDID-HP INJECTION is a concentrated formulation of hydromorphone. Do NOT confuse DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with DILAUDID INJECTION. Overdose and death could result. (5.1) May cause respiratory depression, use with extreme caution in patients at risk of respiratory depression, elderly, and debilitated patients. (5.2) Abuse of DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION poses a hazard of overdose and death. (5.3) Risk of medication errors: Morphine does not convert to hydromorphone on a milligram per milligram basis. Use Table 1 to convert. (5.1) Alcohol, other opioids and central nervous system depressants potentiate the respiratory depressant effects of hydromorphone. (5.4) Infants born to mothers physically dependent on DILAUDID INJECTION or DILAUDID-HP INJECTION will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms. (5.5) Respiratory depression may be markedly increased in patients with head injury, other intracranial lesions, or preexisting increase in intracranial pressure. (5.6) May cause hypotension, use with caution in patients at increased risk of hypotension and in patients in circulatory shock. (5.7) DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION contain sodium metabisulfite. There is a risk of anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening asthmatic episodes in susceptible people. (5.8) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease including pancreatitis. (5.9) Use with caution and in reduced initial doses in the elderly, debilitated, or other patient populations with increased risk of adverse reactions from opioids. (5.10) Use with caution in patients with alcoholism or other drug dependencies. (5.11) May impair the mental and physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. (5.12) 5.1 Risk of Medication Errors DILAUDID-HP INJECTION is a 10 mg/mL concentrated solution of hydromorphone, and is intended for use in opioid-tolerant patients only. Patients considered opioid tolerant are those who are taking at least 60 mg oral morphine/day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl/hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone/day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone/day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid for one week or longer. Do not confuse DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with standard parenteral formulations of DILAUDID INJECTION (1 mg/mL, 2 mg/mL, 4 mg/mL) or other opioids, as overdose and death could result. Morphine does not convert to hydromorphone on a mg per mg basis. Use Table 1 when converting a patient from morphine to hydromorphone to avoid errors that can lead to overdose or death. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the chief hazard of DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION. Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in the elderly, in the debilitated, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia or hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction, in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may dangerously decrease pulmonary ventilation. Respiratory depression is also a particular problem following large initial doses in non opioid-tolerant patients or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with extreme caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or preexisting respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of opioid analgesics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea. Consider using non-opioid analgesics, and administer DILAUDID only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.3 Misuse, Abuse and Diversion of Opioids DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION contain hydromorphone, an opioid agonist with an abuse liability similar to morphine, and a Schedule II, controlled substance. Hydromorphone has the potential for being abused, is sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders, and is subject to criminal diversion. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Abuse of DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION, poses a hazard of overdose and death. This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol or other substances. Schedule II opioid agonists have the highest potential for abuse and risk of fatal respiratory depression. DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse or diversion. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and other CNS Depressants The concurrent use of DILAUDID INJECTION or DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including, but not limited to, other opioids, illicit drugs, sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, muscle relaxants, other tranquilizers, and alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation, potentially resulting in coma or death. Use with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking CNS depressants. 5.5 Neonatal Withdrawal Syndrome Infants born to mothers physically dependent on DILAUDID INJECTION or DILAUDID-HP INJECTION will also be physically dependent and may exhibit signs of withdrawal. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting, and fever. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome may be life-threatening and should be treated according to protocols developed by neonatology experts [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE (9.3)] . 5.6 Use in Increased Intracranial Pressure or Head Injury The respiratory depressant effects of DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION promote carbon dioxide retention which results in elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure. This increase in intracranial pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions, or other conditions that predispose patients to increased intracranial pressure. DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness which can obscure the clinical course and neurologic signs of further increase in pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.7 Hypotensive Effect DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may cause severe hypotension in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure is compromised by a depleted blood volume, or a concurrent administration of drugs such as phenothiazines, general anesthetics, or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)] . DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.8 Sulfites DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION contain sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. 5.9 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease and Other Gastrointestinal Conditions The administration of DILAUDID INJECTION or DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.0)] . Use DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP with caution in patients who are at risk of developing ileus. Use DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as hydromorphone may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.10 Special Risk Patients Give DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with caution and the initial dose should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated and those with severe impairment of hepatic, pulmonary, or renal function; myxedema or hypothyroidism; adrenocortical insufficiency (e.g., Addison's Disease); CNS depression or coma; toxic psychoses; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture; acute alcoholism; delirium tremens; or kyphoscoliosis associated with respiratory depression. The administration of opioid analgesics including DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may aggravate preexisting convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders. DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION, as with other opioids, may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Reports of mild to severe seizures and myoclonus have been reported in severely compromised patients administered high doses of parenteral hydromorphone. 5.11 Use in Drug and Alcohol Dependent Patients Use DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION with caution in patients with alcoholism and other drug dependencies due to the increased frequency of opioid tolerance, dependence, and the risk of addiction observed in these patient populations. Abuse of DILAUDID INJECTION or DILAUDID-HP INJECTION in combination with other CNS depressant drugs can result in serious risk to the patient. DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION contain hydromorphone, an opioid with no approved use in the management of addiction disorders. Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence, either active or in remission, is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia. 5.12 Use in Ambulatory Patients DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may impair mental and/or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks (e.g., driving, operating machinery). Patients should be cautioned accordingly. DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. 5.13 Parenteral Administration DILAUDID INJECTION may be given intravenously, but the injection should be given very slowly. Rapid intravenous injection of opioid analgesics increases the possibility of side effects such as hypotension and respiratory depression [see DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION (2.3)] ."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS EXALGO can be abused. Use caution when prescribing if there is an increased risk of misuse, abuse, or diversion (5.2). EXALGO may be associated with clinically significant respiratory depression. Monitor patients accordingly (5.3). EXALGO may have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol and other CNS depressants (5.4). Use EXALGO with extreme caution in patients susceptible to intracranial effects of CO2 retention (5.5). EXALGO may cause hypotension. Use with caution in patients in circulatory shock (5.6). EXALGO should not be abruptly discontinued (5.13). 5.1 Information Essential for Safe Administration EXALGO tablets are to be swallowed whole, and are not to be broken, chewed, crushed, dissolved or injected. Taking broken, chewed, crushed, dissolved EXALGO or its contents leads to the rapid release and absorption of a potentially fatal dose of hydromorphone [see Boxed Warning]. EXALGO is for use only in opioid tolerant patients. Ingestion of EXALGO may cause fatal respiratory depression when administered to patients who are not opioid tolerant [see Boxed Warning]. EXALGO tablets must be kept in a secure place out of the reach of children. Accidental consumption of EXALGO, especially in children, can result in a fatal overdose of hydromorphone. 5.2 Misuse and Abuse EXALGO contains hydromorphone, an opioid agonist, and is a Schedule II controlled substance. Opioid agonists have the potential for being abused and are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. EXALGO can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing EXALGO in situations where the healthcare professional is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse, or diversion. Breaking, crushing, chewing, or dissolving the contents of an EXALGO tablet results in the uncontrolled delivery of the opioid and poses a significant risk of overdose and death [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9)]. If attempts are made to extract the drug from the hard outer shell for purposes of parenteral abuse, the injection of tablet excipients may be toxic and may result in lethal complications. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. However, all patients treated with opioids, including EXALGO, require careful monitoring for signs of abuse and addiction, since use of opioid analgesic products carries the risk of addiction even under appropriate medical use. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.3 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the chief hazard of EXALGO. Respiratory depression occurs more frequently in elderly or debilitated patients as well as those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia or hypercapnia when even moderate therapeutic doses may dangerously decrease pulmonary ventilation, and when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use EXALGO with extreme caution in patients with conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or decreased respiratory reserve such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, severe obesity, sleep apnea, myxedema, kyphoscoliosis or CNS depression. In these patients, even moderate therapeutic doses of hydromorphone may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea. In these patients, consider alternative non-opioid analgesics, and use EXALGO only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants The concurrent use of EXALGO with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including but not limited to other opioids, illicit drugs, sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, muscle relaxants, other tranquilizers, and alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation, potentially resulting in coma or death. Use with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking CNS depressants. Avoid concurrent use of alcohol and EXALGO [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.5 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure In the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure, the respiratory depressant effects of EXALGO and its potential to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure (resulting from vasodilation following CO2 retention) may be markedly exaggerated. Furthermore, EXALGO can produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness, which may obscure neurologic signs of further increases in intracranial pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.6 Hypotensive Effect EXALGO may cause severe hypotension. There is added risk to individuals whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs such as phenothiazines, general anesthetics, or other agents that compromise vasomotor tone. Administer EXALGO with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.7 Gastrointestinal Effects Because the EXALGO tablet is nondeformable and does not appreciably change in shape in the GI tract, do not administer EXALGO to patients with preexisting severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders small bowel inflammatory disease, "short gut" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures or risk of strictures, such as previous GI surgery, in association with the ingestion of drugs in nondeformable extended-release formulations. The administration of EXALGO may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal condition. It is possible that EXALGO tablets may be visible on abdominal x-rays under certain circumstances, especially when digital enhancing techniques are utilized. 5.8 Sulfites EXALGO contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. 5.9 MAO Inhibitors EXALGO is not recommended for use in patients who have received MAO inhibitors within 14 days, because severe and unpredictable potentiation by MAO inhibitors has been reported with opioid analgesics. 5.10 Special Risk Groups EXALGO should be administered with caution in elderly (>= 65 years) and debilitated patients and in patients who are known to be sensitive to central nervous system depressants, such as those with cardiovascular, pulmonary, renal, or hepatic disease [see Use in Specific Populations (8)]. EXALGO should also be used with caution in the following conditions: adrenocortical insufficiency (e.g., Addison's disease); delirium tremens; myxedema or hypothyroidism; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture; and, toxic psychosis. EXALGO may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. 5.11 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease EXALGO can cause an increase in biliary tract pressure as a result of spasm in the sphincter of Oddi. Caution should be exercised in the administration of EXALGO to patients with inflammatory or obstructive bowel disorders, acute pancreatitis secondary to biliary tract disease and in patients about to undergo biliary surgery. 5.12 Driving and Operating Machinery EXALGO may impair the mental and/or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Caution patients accordingly. Also warn patients about the potential combined effects of EXALGO with other CNS depressants, including other opioids, phenothiazines, sedative/hypnotics, and alcohol [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.13 Precipitation of Withdrawal Mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) should not be administered to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic, including EXALGO. In these patients, mixed agonists/antagonists analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Do not abruptly discontinue EXALGO. Clinical conditions or medicinal products that cause a sudden and significant shortening of gastrointestinal transit time may result in decreased hydromorphone absorption with EXALGO and may potentially lead to withdrawal symptoms in patients with a physical dependence on opioids."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection (HPF) is a concentrated formulation of hydromorphone. Do NOT confuse Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection (HPF) with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection. Overdose and death could result. (5.1) May cause respiratory depression, use with extreme caution in patients at risk of respiratory depression, elderly and debilitated patients. (5.2) Abuse of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection (HPF), poses a hazard of overdose and death. (5.3) Risk of medication errors: Morphine does not convert to hydromorphone on a milligram per milligram basis. Use Table 1 to convert. (5.1) Alcohol, other opioids and central nervous system depressants potentiate the respiratory depressant effects of hydromorphone. (5.4) Infants born to mothers physically dependent on Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection (HPF) will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms. (5.5) Respiratory depression may be markedly increased in patients with head injury, other intracranial lesions, or preexisting increase in intracranial pressure. (5.6) May cause hypotension, use with caution in patients at increased risk of hypotension and in patients in circulatory shock. (5.7) Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection (HPF) contain sodium metabisulfite. There is a risk of anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening asthmatic episodes in susceptible people. (5.8) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease including pancreatitis. (5.9) Use with caution and in reduced initial doses in the elderly, debilitated, or other patient populations with increased risk of adverse reactions from opioids. (5.10) Use with caution in patients with alcoholism or other drug dependencies. (5.11) May impair the mental and physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. (5.12) 5.1 Risk of Medication Errors Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) is a 10 mg/mL concentrated solution of hydromorphone, and is intended for use in opioid-tolerant patients only. Patients considered opioid tolerant are those who are taking at least 60 mg oral morphine/day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl/hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone/day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone/day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid for one week or longer. Do not confuse Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with standard parenteral formulations of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (1 mg/mL, 2 mg/mL, 4 mg/mL) or other opioids, as overdose and death could result. Morphine does not convert to hydromorphone on a mg per mg basis. Use Table 1 when converting a patient from morphine to hydromorphone to avoid errors that can lead to overdose or death. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the chief hazard of Hydromorphone HCl injection (HPF). Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in the elderly, in the debilitated, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia or hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction, in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may dangerously decrease pulmonary ventilation. Respiratory depression is also a particular problem following large initial doses in non opioid-tolerant patients or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with extreme caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or preexisting respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of opioid analgesics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea. Consider using non-opioid analgesics, and administer Hydromorphone HCl Injection only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.3 Misuse, Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) contain hydromorphone, an opioid agonist with an abuse liability similar to morphine, and a Schedule II, controlled substance. Hydromorphone has the potential for being abused, is sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders, and is subject to criminal diversion. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Abuse of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF), poses a hazard of overdose and death. This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol or other substances. Schedule II opioid agonists have the highest potential for abuse and risk of fatal respiratory depression. Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse or diversion. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and other CNS Depressants The concurrent use of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including but not limited to, other opioids, illicit drugs, sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, muscle relaxants, other tranquilizers, and alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation, potentially resulting in coma or death. Use with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking CNS depressants. 5.5 Neonatal Withdrawal Syndrome Infants born to mothers physically dependent on Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) will also be physically dependent and may exhibit signs of withdrawal. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting, and fever. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome may be life threatening and should be treated according to protocols developed by neonatology experts [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE (9.3)]. 5.6 Use in Increased Intracranial Pressure or Head Injury The respiratory depressant effects of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) promote carbon dioxide retention which results in elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure. This increase in intracranial pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions, or other conditions that predispose patients to increased intracranial pressure. Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness which can obscure the clinical course and neurologic signs of further increase in pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.7 Hypotensive Effect Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may cause severe hypotension in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure is compromised by a depleted blood volume, or a concurrent administration of drugs such as phenothiazines, general anesthetics, or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)]. Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.8 Sulfites Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) contain sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. 5.9 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease and Other Gastrointestinal Conditions The administration of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.0)]. Use Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with caution in patients who are at risk of developing ileus. Use Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as hydromorphone may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.10 Special Risk Patients Give Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with caution and the initial dose should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated and those with severe impairment of hepatic, pulmonary or renal function; myxedema or hypothyroidism; adrenocortical insufficiency (e.g., Addison's Disease); CNS depression or coma; toxic psychoses; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture; acute alcoholism; delirium tremens; or kyphoscoliosis associated with respiratory depression. The administration of opioid analgesics including Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may aggravate preexisting convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders. Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF), as with other opioids, may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Reports of mild to severe seizures and myoclonus have been reported in severely compromised patients, administered high doses of parenteral hydromorphone. 5.11 Use in Drug and Alcohol Dependent Patients Use Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) with caution in patients with alcoholism and other drug dependencies due to the increased frequency of opioid tolerance, dependence, and the risk of addiction observed in these patient populations. Abuse of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) in combination with other CNS depressant drugs can result in serious risk to the patient. Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) contain hydromorphone, an opioid with no approved use in the management of addiction disorders. Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence, either active or in remission, is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia. 5.12 Use in Ambulatory Patients Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may impair mental and/or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks (e.g., driving, operating machinery). Patients should be cautioned accordingly. Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. 5.13 Parenteral Administration Hydromorphone HCl Injection may be given intravenously, but the injection should be given very slowly. Rapid intravenous injection of opioid analgesics increases the possibility of side effects such as hypotension and respiratory depression [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.3)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) is a concentrated formulation of hydromorphone. Do not confuse Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with standard formulations of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP. Overdose and death could result. (5.1) May cause respiratory depression, use with extreme caution in patients at risk of respiratory depression, elderly and debilitated patients. (5.2) Abuse of hydromorphone hydrochloride poses a hazard of overdose and death. (5.3) Risk of medication errors: Morphine does not convert to hydromorphone on a milligram per milligram basis. Use Table 1 to convert. (5.1) Alcohol, other opioids and central nervous system depressants potentiate respiratory depressant effects of hydromorphone. (5.4) Infants born to mothers physically dependent on hydromorphone will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms. (5.5) Respiratory depression may be markedly increased in patients with head injury, other intracranial lesions, or preexisting increase in intracranial pressure. (5.6) May cause hypotension, use with caution in patients at increased risk of hypotension and in patients in circulatory shock. (5.7) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease including pancreatitis. (5.8) Use with caution and in reduced initial doses in the elderly, debilitated, or other patient populations with increased risk of adverse reactions from opioids. (5.9) Use with caution in patients with alcoholism or other drug dependencies. (5.10) May impair mental and physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. (5.11) 5.1 Risk of Medication Errors Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) is a 10 mg/mL concentrated solution of hydromorphone, and is intended for use in opioid-tolerant patients only. Patients considered opioid tolerant are those who are taking at least 60 mg oral morphine/day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl/hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone/day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone/day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone/day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid for one week or longer. Do not confuse Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with standard parenteral formulations of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP as overdose and death could result. Morphine does not convert to hydromorphone on a milligram per milligram basis. Use Table 1 when converting a patient from morphine to hydromorphone to avoid errors that can lead to overdose or death. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the chief hazard of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY). Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in the elderly, in the debilitated, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia or hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction, in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may dangerously decrease pulmonary ventilation. Respiratory depression is also a particular problem following large initial doses in non opioid-tolerant patients or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with extreme caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or preexisting respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of opioid analgesics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea. Alternative non-opioid analgesics should be considered and hydromorphone hydrochloride should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.3 Misuse, Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) contains Hydromorphone, an opioid agonist with an abuse liability similar to morphine, and a Schedule II, controlled substance. Hydromorphone has the potential for being abused, is sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders, and is subject to criminal diversion. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Abuse of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) poses a hazard of overdose and death. This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol or other substances. Schedule II opioid agonists have the highest potential for abuse and risk of fatal respiratory depression. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse or diversion. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and other CNS Depressants The concurrent use of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including but not limited to other opioids, illicit drugs, sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, muscle relaxants, other tranquilizers, and alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation, potentially resulting in coma or death. Use with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking CNS depressants. 5.5 Neonatal Withdrawal Syndrome Infants born to mothers physically dependent on Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) will also be physically dependent and may exhibit signs of withdrawal. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting, and fever. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome may be life threatening and should be treated according to protocols developed by neonatology experts [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 5.6 Use in Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) promote carbon dioxide retention which results in elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure. This increase in intracranial pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions, or other conditions that predispose patients to increased intracranial pressure. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) may produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness which can obscure the clinical course and neurologic signs of further increase in pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.7 Hypotensive Effects Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY), may cause severe hypotension in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure is compromised by a depleted blood volume, or a concurrent administration of drugs such as phenothiazines, general anesthetics, or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Hydromorphone hydrochloride may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer hydromorphone hydrochloride with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.8 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease and Other Gastrointestinal Conditions The administration of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions [see Contraindications (4) ]. Use Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with caution in patients who are at risk of developing ileus. Use Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as hydromorphone may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.9 Special Risk Patients Give Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with caution and the initial dose should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated and those with severe impairment of hepatic, pulmonary or renal function; myxedema or hypothyroidism; adrenocortical insufficiency (e.g., Addison's Disease); CNS depression or coma; toxic psychoses; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture; acute alcoholism; delirium tremens; or kyphoscoliosis associated with respiratory depression. The administration of opioid analgesics including Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) may aggravate preexisting convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY), as with other opioids, may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Reports of mild to severe seizures and myoclonus have been reported in severely compromised patients, administered high doses of parenteral hydromorphone. 5.10 Use in Drug and Alcohol Dependent Patients Use Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) with caution in patients with alcoholism and other drug dependencies due to the increased frequency of opioid tolerance, dependence, and the risk of addiction observed in these patient populations. Abuse of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) in combination with other CNS depressant drugs can result in serious risk to the patient. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) contains hydromorphone, an opioid with no approved use in the management of addiction disorders. Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence, either active or in remission, is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia. 5.11 Use in Ambulatory Patients Hydromorphone hydrochloride may impair the mental and/or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks (e.g., driving, operating machinery). Patients should be cautioned accordingly. Hydromorphone hydrochloride may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. 5.12 Parenteral Administration Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) may be given intravenously, but the injection should be given very slowly. Rapid intravenous injection of opioid analgesics increases the possibility of side effects such as hypotension and respiratory depression [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Respiratory depression: increased risk in the elderly, debilitated patients, and those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction (5.1) Abuse of hydromorphone hydrochloride poses a hazard of overdose and death (5.2) Risk of medication errors: Hydromorphone does not convert to morphine on a milligram per milligram basis. Use Table 1 to convert. (5.3) CNS effects: Alcohol, other opioids, CNS depressants, or illicit drugs may potentiate the central nervous system and respiratory depressant effects of hydromorphone. (5.4) Infants born to mothers physically dependent on hydromorphone will also be physically dependent and may exhibit signs of withdrawal. (5.5) Elevation of intracranial pressure: Respiratory depressant effects of hydromorphone promotes carbon dioxide retention that results in elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure, which can be markedly exaggerated in conditions predisposed to increased intracranial pressure. (5.6) Hypotension: Hydromorphone may cause severe hypotension in those with a depleted blood volume or with concurrent administration of drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics. Administer with caution to patients in circulatory shock. (5.7) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease including pancreatitis (5.8) Use with caution with a reduced initial dose in the elderly or debilitated and special risk patients. (5.9) Use with caution in patients with alcoholism and other drug dependencies (5.10) Use may impair mental and/or physical ability and can produce orthostatic hypotension (5.11) 5.1 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the chief hazard of hydromorphone hydrochloride. Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in the elderly, in the debilitated, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia or hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may dangerously decrease pulmonary ventilation. Respiratory depression is also a particular problem following large initial doses in non opioid-tolerant patients or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use hydromorphone hydrochloride with extreme caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or preexisting respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of opioid analgesics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea. Alternative non-opioid analgesics should be considered, and hydromorphone hydrochloride should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.2 Misuse and Abuse of Opioids Hydromorphone is an opioid agonist with an abuse liability similar to morphine and a Schedule II, controlled substance. Hydromorphone has the potential for being abused, is sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders, and is subject to criminal diversion. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Abuse of hydromorphone hydrochloride poses a hazard of overdose and death. This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol or other substances. Schedule II opioid agonists have the highest potential for abuse and risk of fatal respiratory depression. Hydromorphone injection can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing hydromorphone injection in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse or diversion. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.3 Risk of Medication Errors Hydromorphone for parenteral administration is marketed in several concentrations. Take precautions to ensure that the different concentrations are not confused to avoid the risk of accidental overdose and death. Hydromorphone does not convert to morphine on a milligram per milligram basis. Use Table 1 when converting a patient from morphine to hydromorphone to avoid errors that can lead to overdose or death. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol, CNS Depressants, and Drugs of Abuse The concurrent use of hydromorphone hydrochloride with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants, including but not limited to other opioids, illicit drugs, sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, muscle relaxants, other tranquilizers, and alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation, potentially resulting in coma or death. Use with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking CNS depressants. 5.5 Neonatal Withdrawal Syndrome Infants born to mothers physically dependent on hydromorphone hydrochloride injection will also be physically dependent and may exhibit signs of withdrawal. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting, and fever. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome may be life threatening and should be treated according to protocols developed by neonatology experts [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 5.6 Use in Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of hydromorphone hydrochloride injection promote carbon dioxide retention which results in elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure. This increase in intracranial pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions, or other conditions that predispose to increased intracranial pressure. Hydromorphone hydrochloride injection may produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness which can obscure the clinical course and neurologic signs of further increase in pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.7 Hypotensive Effects Hydromorphone hydrochloride, may cause severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or a concurrent administration of drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics [ see Warnings and Precautions (5), Drug Interactions (7) ]. Hydromorphone hydrochloride may product orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer hydromorphone hydrochloride with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.8 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease and Other Gastrointestinal Conditions The administration of hydromorphone hydrochloride injection may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Use hydromorphone hydrochloride injection with caution in patients who are at risk of developing ileus. Use hydromorphone hydrochloride injection with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as hydromorphone may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.9 Special Risk Patients Give hydromorphone hydrochloride with caution and the initial dose should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated and those with severe impairment of hepatic, pulmonary or renal function; myxedema or hypothyroidism; adrenocortical insufficiency (e.g., Addison's Disease); CNS depression or coma; toxic psychoses; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture; acute alcoholism; delirium tremens; or kyphoscoliosis associated with respiratory depression. The administration of opioid analgesics including hydromorphone hydrochloride injection may aggravate preexisting convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders. Hydromorphone, as with other opioids, may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Reports of mild to severe seizures and myoclonus have been reported in severely compromised patients, administered high doses of parenteral hydromorphone. 5.10 Use in Drug and Alcohol Dependent Patients Use hydromorphone hydrochloride with caution in patients with alcoholism and other drug dependencies due to the increased frequency of opioid tolerance, dependence, and the risk of addiction observed in these patient populations. Abuse of hydromorphone hydrochloride in combination with other CNS depressant drugs can result in serious risk to the patient. Hydromorphone is an opioid with no approved use in the management of addictive disorders. Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence, either active or in remission is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia. 5.11 Use in Ambulatory Patients Hydromorphone hydrochloride may impair the mental and/or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks (e.g., driving, operating machinery). Patients should be cautioned accordingly. Hydromorphone hydrochloride may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients [ see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.12 Parenteral Administration Hydromorphone hydrochloride injection may be given intravenously, but the injection should be given very slowly. Rapid intravenous injection of opioid analgesics increases the possibility of side effects such as hypotension and respiratory depression [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ].",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Serious adverse reactions associated with DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION include respiratory depression and apnea and, to a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock, and cardiac arrest. The following serious adverse reactions described elsewhere in the labeling include: -Respiratory depression and secondary effects on intracranial pressure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2, 5.6)] -Hypotension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)] -Gastrointestinal effects and effects in sphincter of Oddi [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.9)] -Drug abuse, addiction, and dependence [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE (9.2, 9.3)] -Effects on the ability to drive and operate machinery [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.12)] The most common adverse effects are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions Cardiac disorders: tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: vision blurred, diplopia, miosis, visual impairment Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, ileus, diarrhea, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: weakness, feeling abnormal, chills, injection site urticaria Hepatobiliary disorders: biliary colic Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: muscle rigidity Nervous system disorders: headache, tremor, paraesthesia, nystagmus, increased intracranial pressure, syncope, taste alteration, involuntary muscle contractions, presyncope Psychiatric disorders: agitation, mood altered, nervousness, anxiety, depression, hallucination, disorientation, insomnia, abnormal dreams Renal and urinary disorders: urinary retention, urinary hesitation, antidiuretic effects Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders: bronchospasm, laryngospasm Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: injection site pain, urticaria, rash, hyperhidrosis Vascular disorders: flushing, hypotension, hypertension Most common adverse reactions are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. (6) To report Suspected Adverse Reactions, contact Purdue Pharma L.P. at 1-888-726-7535 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of hydromorphone. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: anaphylactic reactions, confusional state, convulsions, drowsiness, dyskinesia, dyspnea, erectile dysfunction, fatigue, hepatic enzymes increased, hyperalgesia, hypersensitivity reaction, injection site reactions, lethargy, myoclonus, oropharyngeal swelling, peripheral edema, and somnolence."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Serious adverse reactions associated with Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) include respiratory depression and apnea and, to a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock, and cardiac arrest. The following serious adverse reactions described elsewhere in the labeling include: Respiratory depression and secondary effects on intracranial pressure [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2, 5.6)] Hypotension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)] Gastrointestinal effects and effects in sphincter of Oddi [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.9)] Drug abuse, addiction, and dependence [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE (9.2, 9.3)] Effects on the ability to drive and operate machinery [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.12)] The most common adverse effects are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions Cardiac disorders: tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: vision blurred, diplopia, miosis, visual impairment Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, ileus, diarrhea, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: weakness, feeling abnormal, chills, injection site urticaria Hepatobiliary disorders: biliary colic Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: muscle rigidity Nervous system disorders: headache, tremor, paraesthesia, nystagmus, increased intracranial pressure, syncope, taste alteration, involuntary muscle contractions, presyncope Psychiatric disorders: agitation, mood altered, nervousness, anxiety, depression, hallucination, disorientation, insomnia, abnormal dreams Renal and urinary disorders: urinary retention, urinary hesitation, antidiuretic effects Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders: bronchospasm, laryngospasm Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: injection site pain, urticaria, rash, hyperhidrosis Vascular disorders: flushing, hypotension, hypertension Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of hydromorphone. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: anaphylactic reactions, confusional state, convulsions, drowsiness, dyskinesia, dyspnea, erectile dysfunction, fatigue, hepatic enzymes increased, hyperalgesia, hypersensitivity reaction, injection site reactions, lethargy, myoclonus, oropharyngeal swelling, peripheral edema, and somnolence. Most common adverse reactions are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. (6) To report Suspected Adverse Reactions, contact Akorn, Inc. at 1-800-932-5676 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Serious adverse reactions associated with hydromorphone hydrochloride include respiratory depression and apnea, and to a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest. The following serious adverse reactions described elsewhere in the labeling include: -Respiratory depression and secondary effects on intracranial pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.6)]. -Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. -Gastrointestinal effects and effects in sphincter of Oddi [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. -Drug abuse, addiction, and dependence [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2, 9.3)]. -Effects on the ability to drive and operate machinery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. The most common adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Most common adverse reactions are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions Cardiac disorders: tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: vision blurred, diplopia, miosis, visual impairment Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, ileus, diarrhea, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: weakness, feeling abnormal, chills, injection site urticaria Hepatobiliary disorders: biliary colic Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: muscle rigidity Nervous system disorders: headache, tremor, paraesthesia, nystagmus, increased intracranial pressure, syncope, taste alteration, involuntary muscle contractions, presyncope Psychiatric disorders: agitation, mood altered, nervousness, anxiety, depression, hallucination, disorientation, insomnia, abnormal dreams Renal and urinary disorders: urinary retention, urinary hesitation, antidiuretic effects Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: bronchospasm, laryngospasm Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: injection site pain, urticaria, rash, hyperhidrosis Vascular disorders: flushing, hypotension, hypertension 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of hydromorphone. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: anaphylactic reactions, confusional state, convulsions, drowsiness, dyskinesia, dyspnea, erectile dysfunction, fatigue, hepatic enzymes increased, hyperalgesia, hypersensitivity reaction, injection site reactions, lethargy, myoclonus, oropharyngeal swelling, peripheral edema, and somnolence."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Serious adverse reactions associated with hydromorphone hydrochloride include respiratory depression and apnea, and to a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The following serious adverse reactions described elsewhere in the labeling include: -Respiratory depression and secondary effects on intracranial pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.6 ) ]. -Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. -Gastrointestinal effects and effects in sphincter of Oddi [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. -Drug abuse, addiction, and dependence [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.2 , 9.3 ) ]. -Effects on the ability to drive and operate machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. The most common adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. Serious adverse reactions include respiratory depression and apnea, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions Cardiac disorders: tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: vision blurred, diplopia, miosis, visual impairment Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, ileus, diarrhea, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: weakness, feeling abnormal, chills, injection site urticaria Hepatobiliary disorders: biliary colic Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: muscle rigidity Nervous system disorders: headache, tremor, paraesthesia, nystagmus, increased intracranial pressure, syncope, taste alteration, involuntary muscle contractions, presyncope Psychiatric disorders: agitation, mood altered, nervousness, anxiety, depression, hallucination, disorientation, insomnia, abnormal dreams Renal and urinary disorders: urinary retention, urinary hesitation, antidiuretic effects Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: bronchospasm, laryngospasm Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: injection site pain, urticaria, rash, hyperhidrosis Vascular disorders: flushing, hypotension, hypertension 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of hydromorphone. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: anaphylactic reactions, confusional state, convulsions, dyskinesia, dyspnea, erectile dysfunction, hepatic enzyme increased, hyperalgesia, hypersensitivity reaction, injection site reactions, myoclonus, oropharyngeal swelling, peripheral edema, somnolence.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Respiratory Depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Hypotensive Effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Gastrointestinal Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Cardiac Arrest [see Overdosage (10)] Precipitation of Withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Most common adverse reactions (>10%) are: constipation, nausea, vomiting, somnolence, headache, and dizziness (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Covidien at 1-800-778-7898 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. EXALGO was administered to a total of 2,524 patients in 15 controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies. Of these, 423 patients were exposed to EXALGO for greater than 6 months and 141 exposed for greater than one year. The overall incidence of adverse reactions in patients greater than 65 years of age was higher, with a greater than 5% difference in rates for constipation and nausea when compared with younger patients. The overall incidence of adverse reactions in female patients was higher, with a greater than 5% difference in rates for nausea, vomiting, constipation and somnolence when compared with male patients. A 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized withdrawal study was conducted in opioid tolerant patients with moderate to severe low back pain [see Clinical Studies (14)]. A total of 447 patients were enrolled into the open-label titration phase with 268 patients randomized into the double-blind treatment phase. The adverse reactions that were reported in at least 2% of the patients are contained in Table 2 . Table 2. Number (%) of Patients with Adverse Reactions Reported in >=2% of Patients with Moderate to Severe Low Back Pain During the Open-Label Titration Phase or Double-Blind Treatment Phase by Preferred Term Preferred Term Open-Label Titration Phase Double-Blind Treatment Phase EXALGO (N = 447) EXALGO (N = 134) Placebo (N = 134) Constipation 69 (15) 10 (7) 5 (4) Nausea 53 (12) 12 (9) 10 (7) Somnolence 39 (9) 1 (1) 0 (0) Headache 35 (8) 7 (5) 10 (7) Vomiting 29 (6) 8 (6) 6 (4) Drug Withdrawal Syndrome 22 (5) 13 (10) 16 (12) Pruritus 21 (5) 1 (1) 0 (0) Dizziness 17 (4) 3 (2) 2 (1) Asthenia Fatigue was grouped and reported with asthenia 16 (4) 2 (1) 6 (4) Insomnia 13 (3) 7 (5) 5 (4) Diarrhea 13 (3) 5 (4) 9 (7) Back Pain 13 (3) 6 (4) 8 (6) Dry Mouth 13 (3) 2 (1) 0 (0) Edema Peripheral 13 (3) 3 (2) 1 (1) Hyperhidrosis 13 (3) 2 (1) 2 (1) Anorexia Decreased appetite was grouped and reported with anorexia 10 (2) 2 (1) 0 (0) Arthralgia 9 (2) 8 (6) 3 (2) Anxiety 9 (2) 0 (0) 4 (3) Abdominal pain Abdominal pain upper was grouped and reported with abdominal pain 9 (2) 4 (3) 3 (2) Muscle Spasms 5 (1) 3 (2) 1 (1) Weight Decreased 3 (1) 4 (3) 3 (2) The adverse reactions that were reported in at least 2% of the total treated patients (N=2,474) in the 14 chronic clinical trials are contained in Table 3 . Table 3. Number (%) of Patients with Adverse Reactions Reported in >=2% of Patients with Chronic Pain Receiving EXALGO in 14 Clinical Studies by Preferred Term Preferred Term All Patients (N = 2,474) Constipation 765 (31) Nausea 684 (28) Vomiting 337 (14) Somnolence 367 (15) Headache 308 (12) Asthenia Fatigue was grouped and reported with asthenia 272 (11) Dizziness 262 (11) Diarrhea 201 (8) Pruritus 193 (8) Insomnia 161 (7) Hyperhidrosis 143 (6) Edema Peripheral 135 (5) Anorexia Decreased appetite was grouped and reported with anorexia 139 (6) Dry Mouth 121 (5) Abdominal Pain Abdominal pain upper was grouped and reported with abdominal pain 115 (5) Anxiety 95 (4) Back Pain 95 (4) Dyspepsia Reflux esophagitis, gastroesophageal reflux disease and Barrett's esophagus were grouped and reported with dyspepsia 88 (4) Depression 81 (3) Dyspnea Dyspnea exacerbated and dyspnea exertional were grouped and reported with dyspnea 76 (3) Muscle Spasms 74 (3) Arthralgia 72 (3) Rash 64 (3) Pain in Extremity 63 (3) Pain 58 (2) Drug Withdrawal Syndrome 55 (2) Pyrexia 52 (2) Fall 51 (2) Chest discomfort Chest pain and non-cardiac chest pain were grouped and reported with chest discomfort 51 (2) The following Adverse Reactions occurred in patients with an overall frequency of <2% and are listed in descending order within each System Organ Class: Cardiac disorders: palpitations, tachycardia, bradycardia, extrasystoles Ear and labyrinth disorders: vertigo, tinnitus Endocrine disorders: hypogonadism Eye disorders: vision blurred, diplopia, dry eye, miosis Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence, dysphagia, hematochezia, abdominal distension, hemorrhoids, abnormal feces, intestinal obstruction, eructation, diverticulum, gastrointestinal motility disorder, large intestine perforation, anal fissure, bezoar, duodenitis, ileus, impaired gastric emptying, painful defecation General disorders and administration site conditions: chills, malaise, feeling abnormal, feeling hot and cold, feeling jittery, hangover, difficulty in walking, feeling drunk, hypothermia Infections and infestations: gastroenteritis, diverticulitis Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: contusion, overdose Investigations: weight decreased, hepatic enzyme increased, blood potassium decreased, blood amylase increased, blood testosterone decreased, oxygen saturation decreased Metabolism and nutrition disorders: dehydration, fluid retention, increased appetite, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: myalgia Nervous system disorders: tremor, sedation, hypoesthesia, paraesthesia, disturbance in attention, memory impairment, dysarthria, syncope, balance disorder, dysgeusia, depressed level of consciousness, coordination abnormal, hyperesthesia, myoclonus, dyskinesia, hyperreflexia, encephalopathy, cognitive disorder, convulsion, psychomotor hyperactivity Psychiatric disorders: confusional state, nervousness, restlessness, abnormal dreams, mood altered, hallucination, panic attack, euphoric mood, paranoia, dysphoria, listless, crying, suicide ideation, libido decreased, aggression Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, urinary retention, urinary frequency, urinary hesitation, micturition disorder Reproductive system and breast disorders: erectile dysfunction, sexual dysfunction Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: rhinorrhoea, respiratory distress, hypoxia, bronchospasm, sneezing, hyperventilation, respiratory depression Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: erythema Vascular disorders: flushing, hypertension, hypotension"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants: increased risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma. Mixed Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. (7.2) MAO inhibitors: Allow at least 14 days after stopping MAOIs before initiating treatment with hydromorphone. (7.3) Anticholinergics: Medications with anticholinergic activity when used with opioid analgesics may result in increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. (7.4) 7.1 Interactions with other CNS Depressants Hydromorphone hydrochloride injection should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients concurrently receiving other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, centrally acting anti-emetics, tranquilizers, and alcohol because respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma may result. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Opioid analgesics, including hydromorphone hydrochloride, may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.2 Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs may potentiate the action of hydromorphone hydrochloride. Allow at least 14 days after stopping treatment with MAOIs before initiating treatment with hydromorphone hydrochloride. 7.4 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics including hydromorphone hydrochloride injection may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent use of other CNS depressants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma. (7.1) Mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. (7.2) 7.1 Interactions with other CNS Depressants Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients concurrently receiving other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, centrally acting anti-emetics, tranquilizers, and alcohol because respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma may result. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Opioid analgesics, including Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY), may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.2 Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) and partial agonist analgesics (buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY). In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs may potentiate the action of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY). Allow at least 14 days after stopping treatment with MAOIs before initiating treatment with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY). 7.4 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Injection, USP (HIGH POTENCY) may result in increased risk of urinary retention and severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent use of other CNS depressants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma. (7.1) Mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions with other CNS Depressants DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients concurrently receiving other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, centrally acting anti-emetics, tranquilizers, and alcohol because respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma may result. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Opioid analgesics, including DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION, may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.2 Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) and partial agonist analgesics (buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs may potentiate the action of DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION. Allow at least 14 days after stopping treatment with MAOIs before initiating treatment with DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION. 7.4 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with DILAUDID INJECTION and DILAUDID-HP INJECTION may result in increased risk of urinary retention and severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent use of other CNS depressants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma. (7.1) Mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions with other CNS Depressants Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) should be used with caution and in reduced dosages when administered to patients concurrently receiving other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, centrally acting antiemetics, tranquilizers, and alcohol because respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma may result. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Opioid analgesics, including Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF), may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.2 Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) and partial agonist analgesics (buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF). In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs may potentiate the action of Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF). Allow at least 14 days after stopping treatment with MAOIs before initiating treatment with Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF). 7.4 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with Hydromorphone HCl Injection (HPF) may result in increased risk of urinary retention and severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS EXALGO is not intended for patients taking Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or within 14 days of stopping such treatment (7). Mixed agonist/antagonist opioid analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of EXALGO and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms (7.3). Medications with anticholinergic activity when used with EXALGO may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation (7.4). 7.1 CNS Depressants The concomitant use of EXALGO with central nervous system depressants such as hypnotics, sedatives, general anesthetics, antipsychotics and alcohol may cause additive depressant effects and respiratory depression. Additionally, hypotension and profound sedation or coma could occur. When this combination is indicated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concomitant use of alcohol should be avoided [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors MAO inhibitors may cause CNS excitation or depression, hypotension or hypertension if co-administered with opioids including EXALGO. EXALGO is not intended for patients taking MAO inhibitors or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. 7.3 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of EXALGO with morphine agonist/antagonists (buprenorphone, nalbuphine, pentazocine) could lead to a reduction of the analgesic effect by competitive blocking of receptors, thus leading to risk of withdrawal symptoms. Therefore, this combination is not recommended. 7.4 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with EXALGO may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. 7.5 Cytochrome P450 Enzymes In vitro data suggest that hydromorphone in clinically relevant concentrations has minimal potential to inhibit the activity of human hepatic CYP450 enzymes including CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 3A4, and 4A11."$$
"- ADVERSE EVENTS To facilitate Adverse Event Reporting: www.fda.gov/medwatch or 1-800-FDA-1088."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Central Nervous System: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, mood changes. Gastrointestinal System: Nausea, and vomiting occur infrequently; they are more frequent in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. The antiemetic phenothiazines are useful in suppressing these effects; however, some phenothiazine derivatives seem to be antianalgesic and to increase the amount of opioid required to produce pain relief, while other phenothiazines reduce the amount of opioid required to produce a given level of analgesia. Prolonged administration of hydromorphone hydrochloride may produce constipation. Opiate agonist-induced increase in intraluminal pressure may endanger surgical anastomosis. Cardiovascular System: Circulatory depression, peripheral circulatory collapse and cardiac arrest have occurred after rapid intravenous injection. Orthostatic hypotension and fainting may occur if a patient stands up suddenly after receiving an injection of hydromorphone hydrochloride. Genitourinary System: Ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters and urinary retention have been reported. Respiratory Depression: Hydromorphone hydrochloride produces dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers. Hydromorphone hydrochloride also affects centers that control respiratory rhythm, and may produce irregular and periodic breathing. If significant respiratory depression occurs, it may be antagonized by the use of naloxone hydrochloride. The usual adult dose of 0.4 to 0.8 mg given intramuscularly or intravenously, promptly reverses the effects of morphine-like opioid agonists such as hydromorphone hydrochloride. In patients who are physically dependent, small doses of naloxone may be sufficient not only to antagonize respiratory depression, but also to precipitate withdrawal phenomena. The dose of naloxone should therefore be adjusted accordingly in such patients. Since the duration of action of hydromorphone hydrochloride may exceed that of the antagonist, the patient should be kept under continued surveillance; repeated doses of the antagonist may be required to maintain adequate respiration. Apply other supportive measures when indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of DILAUDID ORAL LIQUID and DILAUDID TABLETS include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension Respiratory Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of DILAUDID ORAL LIQUID and DILAUDID TABLETS include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated musclemovements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension Respiratory Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone, as with other narcotic analgesics, are respiratory depression and, to a lesser degree, circulatory depression; respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred, particularly with overdosage or rapid intravenous administration. Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported when phenanthrene alkaloids of opium are administered intravenously. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: Sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, headache, tremor, visual disturbances, weakness, agitation, lethargy, impairment of mental and physical performance, uncoordinated muscle movements, anxiety, fear, euphoria, dysphoria, dizziness, psychological dependence and mood changes. GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: Nausea and vomiting occur more frequently in ambulatory than in recumbent patients. Hydromorphone may produce constipation, biliary tract spasm and can increase intraluminal pressure which may endanger surgical anastomosis. Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis may experience increased colonic motility; in patients with acute ulcerative colitis, toxic dilatation has been reported with narcotics. CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: Circulatory depression, peripheral circulatory collapse and cardiac arrest have occurred after rapid intravenous injection. Orthostatic hypotension and fainting may occur, especially if a patient stands up suddenly after receiving an injection of hydromorphone. Additionally, hydromorphone may cause tachycardia, bradycardia and palpitations. GENITOURINARY SYSTEM: Oliguria, ureteral spasm, spasm of vesical sphincters and urinary retention have been reported. RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION: Hydromorphone produces dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers. Hydromorphone also affects centers that control respiratory rhythm and may produce irregular and periodic breathing. If significant respiratory depression occurs, it may be antagonized by the use of naloxone hydrochloride. In patients who are physically dependent, small doses of naloxone may be sufficient not only to antagonize respiratory depression but also to precipitate withdrawal phenomena. The dose of naloxone should, therefore, be adjusted accordingly in such patients. Since the duration of action of hydromorphone may exceed that of the antagonist, the patient should be kept under continued surveillance; repeated doses of the antagonist may be required to maintain adequate respiration. Apply other supportive measures when indicated. ALLERGIC: Allergic reactions to opiates occur infrequently; pruritus, urticaria and other skin rashes are most common. Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported following intravenous administration of opiates. OTHER: Opiate-induced histamine release may be responsible for the flushing of the face, sweating and pruritus often seen with these drugs. Wheals and urticaria at the site of injection are probably related to histamine release. Local tissue irritation, pain and induration have been reported following repeated subcutaneous injection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone hydrochloride injection (high potency formulation) include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS: Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, and increased intracranial pressure. Cardiovascular: Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, and hypertension. Respiratory: Bronchospasm and laryngospasm. Gastrointestinal: Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, and taste alterations. Genitourinary: Urinary retention or hesitancy, and antidiuretic effects. Dermatologic: Urticaria, other skin rashes, wheal and flare over the vein with intravenous injection, and diaphoresis. Other: In clinical trials, neither local tissue irritation nor induration was observed at the site of subcutaneous injection of hydromorphone hydrochloride injection (high potency formulation); pain at the injection site was rarely observed."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension Respiratory Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets and oral solution include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension Respiratory Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS - Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular - Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension Respiratory - Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal - Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary - Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic - Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension Respiratory Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS: Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular: Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension. Respiratory: Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal: Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary: Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic: Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNS Weakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure Cardiovascular Flushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension Respiratory Bronchospasm and laryngospasm Gastrointestinal Constipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration Genitourinary Urinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects Dermatologic Urticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets include respiratory depression and apnea. To a lesser degree, circulatory depression, respiratory arrest, shock and cardiac arrest have occurred. The most frequently observed adverse effects are light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, sweating, flushing, dysphoria, euphoria, dry mouth, and pruritus. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those not experiencing severe pain. Less Frequently Observed Adverse Reactions General and CNSWeakness, headache, agitation, tremor, uncoordinated muscle movements, alterations of mood (nervousness, apprehension, depression, floating feelings, dreams), muscle rigidity, paresthesia, muscle tremor, blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia and miosis, transient hallucinations and disorientation, visual disturbances, insomnia, increased intracranial pressure CardiovascularFlushing of the face, chills, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, hypotension, hypertension RespiratoryBronchospasm and laryngospasm GastrointestinalConstipation, biliary tract spasm, ileus, anorexia, diarrhea, cramps, taste alteration GenitourinaryUrinary retention or hesitancy, antidiuretic effects DermatologicUrticaria, other skin rashes, diaphoresis"$$
"Drug Interactions"$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers and alcohol may produce additive depressant effects. Respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation or coma may occur. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. DILAUDID should not be taken with alcohol. Opioid analgesics, including DILAUDID ORAL LIQUID and DILAUDID TABLETS, may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an excessive degree of respiratory depression. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers and alcohol may produce additive depressant effects. Respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation or coma may occur. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. DILAUDID should not be taken with alcohol. Opioid analgesics, including DILAUDID ORAL LIQUID and DILAUDID TABLETS, may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an excessive degree of respiratory depression. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine,butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with apure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers and alcohol may produce additive depressant effects. Respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation or coma may occur. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets should not be taken with alcohol. Opioid analgesics, including Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets, may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an excessive degree of respiratory depression. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers and alcohol may produce additive depressant effects. Respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation or coma may occur. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Hydromorphone hydrochloride should not be taken with alcohol. Opioid analgesics, including hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets and oral solution may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an excessive degree of respiratory depression. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers and alcohol may produce additive depressant effects. Respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation or coma may occur. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets should not be taken with alcohol. Opioid analgesics, including hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets, may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an excessive degree of respiratory depression. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with Other CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers and alcohol may produce additive depressant effects. Respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation or coma may occur. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets should not be taken with alcohol. Opioid analgesics, including Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Tablets, may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an excessive degree of respiratory depression. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with other CNS Depressants: The concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers and alcohol may produce additive depressant effects. Respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation or coma may occur. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Opioid analgesics, including hydromorphone hydrochloride injection (high potency formulation) may enhance the action of neuromuscular blocking agents and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydromorphone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydromorphone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Reports of mild to severe seizures and myoclonus have been reported in severely compromised patients, administered high doses of parenteral hydromorphone, for cancer and severe pain. Opioid administration at very high doses is associated with seizures and myoclonus in a variety of diseases where pain control is the primary focus. Experience with administration of hydromorphone hydrochloride injection (high potency formulation) by the intravenous route is limited. Should intravenous administration be necessary, the injection should be given slowly, over at least 2 to 3 minutes."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Hydromorphone should be administered cautiously and in reduced dosage to avoid additive effects when other central nervous system depressants including other narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tricyclic antidepressants, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) are given concomitantly. Whenever concomitant therapy with MAO inhibitors and narcotic analgesics, including hydromorphone is to be used, an initial small test dose is advisable to allow observation of excessive narcotic effects or MAOI interaction."$$
"Drug Interactions: Patients receiving other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics, tricyclic antidepressants or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydromorphone hydrochloride may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced."$$
"- WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Outsourced Compounded Drug. Not for Resale. Hospital/Office Use Only."$$
