""$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5.1 General There are no long-term evaluations of the infants treated with ibuprofen at durations greater than the 36 weeks post-conceptual age observation period. Ibuprofen's effects on neurodevelopmental outcome and growth as well as disease processes associated with prematurity (such as retinopathy of prematurity and chronic lung disease) have not been assessed. 5.2 Infection NeoProfen may alter the usual signs of infection. The physician must be continually on the alert and should use the drug with extra care in the presence of controlled infection and in infants at risk of infection. 5.3 Platelet Aggregation NeoProfen, like other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, can inhibit platelet aggregation. Preterm infants should be observed for signs of bleeding. Ibuprofen has been shown to prolong bleeding time (but within the normal range) in normal adult subjects. This effect may be exaggerated in patients with underlying hemostatic defects (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). 5.4 Bilirubin Displacement Ibuprofen has been shown to displace bilirubin from albumin binding-sites; therefore, it should be used with caution in patients with elevated total bilirubin. 5.5 Administration NeoProfen should be administered carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage, as solution may be irritating to tissue. NeoProfen has not been assessed for neurodevelopmental outcome and growth (5.1) NeoProfen may alter the usual signs of infection (5.2) NeoProfen can inhibit platelet aggregation, and has been shown to prolong bleeding time in normal adult subjects (5.3) Ibuprofen has been shown to displace bilirubin from albumin binding-sites (5.4) NeoProfen should be administered carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage (5.5)"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (5.4) Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (5.5, 7) Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of DUEXIS in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure. (5.6) Active Bleeding: Active and clinically significant bleeding from any source can occur; discontinue DUEXIS if active bleeding occurs (5.3) Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of DUEXIS in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (5.7) Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (5.8) Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: DUEXIS is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin-sensitivity) (5.10) Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue DUEXIS at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity (5.11) Premature Closure of the Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation (5.12, 8.1) Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patient with any signs or symptoms of anemia (5.13) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDS. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as ibuprofen, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal GI events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4)]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of DUEXIS in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If DUEXIS is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDS. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. NSAIDs should be given with care to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue DUEXIS until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.3 Active Bleeding When active and clinically significant bleeding from any source occurs in patients receiving DUEXIS, the treatment should be withdrawn. Patients with initial hemoglobin values of 10 g or less who are to receive long-term therapy should have hemoglobin values determined periodically. 5.4 Hepatotoxicity Elevations of ALT or AST (three or more times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) have been reported in approximately 1% of NSAID-treated patients in clinical trials. In addition, rare, sometimes fatal, cases of severe hepatic injury, including fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis, and hepatic failure have been reported. Elevations of ALT or AST (less than three times ULN) may occur in up to 15% of patients treated with NSAIDs including ibuprofen. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue DUEXIS immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. 5.5 Hypertension NSAIDs, including DUEXIS, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.6 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of ibuprofen may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of DUEXIS in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If DUEXIS is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of worsening heart failure. 5.7 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy was usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of DUEXIS in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of DUEXIS may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with pre-existing renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating DUEXIS. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of DUEXIS [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of DUEXIS in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal failure. If DUEXIS is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.8 Anaphylactic Reactions Ibuprofen has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to ibuprofen and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.9 Seizures Central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects including seizures, delirium, and coma have been reported with famotidine in patients with moderate (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) and severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance <10 mL/min), and the dosage of the famotidine component in DUEXIS is fixed. Therefore, DUEXIS is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 50 mL/min. 5.10 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, DUEXIS is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4)]. When DUEXIS is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.11 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, which is a component of DUEXIS tablets, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and to discontinue the use of DUEXIS at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. DUEXIS is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Ibuprofen may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including DUEXIS, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Use in Specific Population (8.1)]. 5.13 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with DUEXIS has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including DUEXIS, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant concomitant use of warfarin, and other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.14 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of DUEXIS in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.15 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.4, 5.7)]. 5.16 Concomitant NSAID Use DUEXIS contains ibuprofen as one of its active ingredients. It should not be used with other ibuprofen-containing products. The concomitant use of NSAIDs, including aspirin, with DUEXIS may increase the risk of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6), Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Studies (14) ]. 5.17 Aseptic Meningitis Aseptic meningitis with fever and coma has been observed on rare occasions in patients on ibuprofen, which is a component of DUEXIS. Although it is probably more likely to occur in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and related connective tissue diseases, it has been reported in patients who do not have an underlying chronic disease. If signs or symptoms of meningitis develop in a patient on DUEXIS, the possibility of its being related to ibuprofen should be considered. 5.18 Ophthalmological Effects Blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata, and/or changes in color vision have been reported. If a patient develops such complaints while receiving DUEXIS, the drug should be discontinued, and the patient should have an ophthalmologic examination which includes central visual fields and color vision testing."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PRASTERA(R) is not intended for use in children, nor males, nor women who are breastfeeding, pregnant, or who expect to become pregnant. \\302\\2479. Monitoring of blood pressure, serum lipids, serum sex hormones is prudent. See Clinical Laboratory Evaluation, \\302\\247\\302\\2477.2.1, 7.2.4. PRASTERA(R) is not intended for use in nursing or pregnant women, children nor males (safety data is lacking). (\\302\\247\\302\\2474, 9) PRASTERA(R) use may be prohibited by certain athletic anti-doping regulations. (\\302\\2479.5) PRASTERA(R) may in certain patients elevate serum levels of 5-dehydroepiandrosterone, testosterone or estrogen above the normal range for healthy, non-afflicted women of similar age. Periodic measurement of serum hormones is prudent. (\\302\\2477.2.1) Hypertension may occur with prasterone treatment. Monitor blood pressure closely. (\\302\\2476.3.2)"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious and potentially fatal CV thrombotic events: Use lowest effective dose of Caldolor for shortest possible duration. (5.1) Serious and potentially fatal GI reactions: Use lowest effective dose of Caldolor for shortest possible duration. Use with caution in patients with prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding. (5.2) Hepatic effects: Range from transaminase elevations to liver failure. Discontinue Caldolor immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen. (5.3, 5.15) Hypertension: Can occur with NSAID treatment. Monitor blood pressure closely during treatment with Caldolor. (5.4) Congestive heart failure and edema: Fluid retention and edema can occur with NSAID treatment. Use Caldolor with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. (5.5) Renal effects: Long-term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Use Caldolor with caution in patients at risk (e.g., the elderly, those with renal impairment, heart failure, liver impairment, and those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors). (5.6) Anaphylactoid reactions: May occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to Caldolor. Discontinue Caldolor immediately if an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. (5.7, 5.12) Serious skin reactions: Include exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal. Discontinue Caldolor if rash or other signs of local skin reaction occur. (5.8) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4.3)]. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID does increase the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )]. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Effects: Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, can cause serious GI adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Prescribe NSAIDs, including Caldolor, with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to treated patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most reports of spontaneous fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulcerations and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high-risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. 5.3 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of patients taking NSAIDs, including ibuprofen. These laboratory abnormalities may progress, may remain unchanged, or may be transient with continuing therapy. Notable elevations of ALT or AST (approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs. In addition, rare cases of severe hepatic reactions have been reported, including jaundice, fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis and hepatic failure, some with fatal outcomes. A patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or with abnormal liver test values, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with ibuprofen. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), ibuprofen should be discontinued. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Use NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, with caution in patients with hypertension. Monitor blood pressure closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Patients taking ACE inhibitors, thiazides, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. 5.5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs. Use Caldolor with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5.6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with Caldolor in patients with considerable dehydration. Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of Caldolor in patients with advanced renal disease. If Caldolor therapy must be initiated in patients with advanced renal disease, closely monitor the patient's renal function. 5.7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to ibuprofen. Caldolor is contraindicated in patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4.2)]. 5.8 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations, and to discontinue Caldolor at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation, Caldolor, and other NSAIDs, should be avoided by pregnant women as premature closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetus may occur [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.10 Masking Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of ibuprofen in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions. 5.11 Hematological Effects Caldolor must be diluted prior to use. Infusion of the drug product without dilution can cause hemolysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. Anemia may occur in patients receiving NSAIDs, including ibuprofen. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. In patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, check hemoglobin or hematocrit if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, their effects on platelet function are less severe quantitatively, of shorter duration, and reversible. Carefully monitor patients who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants. 5.12 Pre-existing Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross-reactivity between aspirin and NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, including bronchospasm, Caldolor is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in all patients with pre-existing asthma. 5.13 Ophthalmological Effects Blurred or diminished vision, scotomata, and changes in color vision have been reported with oral ibuprofen. Discontinue ibuprofen if a patient develops such complaints, and refer the patient for an ophthalmologic examination that includes central visual fields and color vision testing. 5.14 Aseptic Meningitis Aseptic meningitis with fever and coma has been observed in patients on oral ibuprofen therapy. Although it is probably more likely to occur in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and related connective tissue diseases, it has been reported in patients who do not have underlying chronic disease. If signs or symptoms of meningitis develop in a patient on ibuprofen, give consideration to whether or not the signs or symptoms are related to ibuprofen therapy. 5.15 Monitoring Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should have CBC and chemistry profiles checked periodically. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop, systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash), or abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, discontinue Caldolor."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience The most frequently reported adverse events with NeoProfen were as shown in Table 1. 6.2 Renal Function Compared to placebo, there was a small decrease in urinary output in the ibuprofen group on days 2-6 of life, with a compensatory increase in urine output on day 9. In other studies, adverse events classified as renal insufficiency including oliguria, elevated BUN, elevated creatinine, or renal failure were reported in ibuprofen treated infants. 6.3 Additional Adverse Events The adverse events reported in the multicenter study and of unknown association include tachycardia, cardiac failure, abdominal distension, gastroesophageal reflux, gastritis, ileus, inguinal hernia, injection site reactions, cholestasis, various infections, feeding problems, convulsions, jaundice, hypotension, and various laboratory abnormalities including neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and hyperglycemia. 6.4 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous post-marketing reports or published literature: gastrointestinal perforation, necrotizing enterocolitis, and pulmonary hypertension. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency, or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Most common adverse reactions (>=10%) are sepsis, anemia, intraventricular bleeding, apnea, gastrointestinal disorders, impaired renal function, respiratory infection, skin lesions, hypoglycemia, hypocalcemia, respiratory failure. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Recordati Rare Diseases at 1-888-575-8344, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Table 1"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular thrombotic events [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Gastrointestinal effects [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hepatic effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Congestive heart failure and edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Renal effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Anaphylactoid reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Serious skin reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] The most common adverse reactions reported in clinical studies are nausea, flatulence, vomiting, and headache. The most common reason for discontinuation due to adverse events in controlled trials of Caldolor is pruritus (<1%). The most common adverse reactions are nausea, flatulence, vomiting, headache, hemorrhage and dizziness (>5%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Cumberland Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-484-2700 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be compared directly to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical development, 560 patients were exposed to Caldolor, 438 in pain and 122 with fever. In the pain studies, Caldolor was started intra-operatively and administered at a dose of 400 mg or 800 mg every six hours for up to three days. In the fever studies, Caldolor was administered at doses of 100 mg, 200 mg, or 400 mg every four or six hours for up to 3 days. The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with oral ibuprofen is gastrointestinal. Pain Studies The incidence rates of adverse reactions listed in the following table were derived from multi-center, controlled clinical studies in post-operative patients comparing Caldolor to placebo in patients also receiving morphine as needed for post-operative pain. Table 1: Post-operative Patients with Adverse Reactions Observed in >= 3% of Patients in any Caldolor Treatment Group in Pain Studies* * All patients received concomitant morphine during these studies. Event Caldolor Placebo (N=287) 400 mg (N=134) 800 mg (N=304) Any Reaction 118 (88%) 260 (86%) 258 (90%) Nausea 77 (57%) 161 (53%) 179 (62%) Vomiting 30 (22%) 46 (15%) 50 (17%) Flatulence 10 (7%) 49 (16%) 44 (15%) Headache 12 (9%) 35 (12%) 31 (11%) Hemorrhage 13 (10%) 13 (4%) 16 (6%) Dizziness 8 (6%) 13 (4%) 5 (2%) Edema peripheral 1 (<1%) 9 (3%) 4 (1%) Urinary retention 7 (5%) 10 (3%) 10 (3%) Anemia 5 (4%) 7 (2%) 6 (2%) Decreased hemoglobin 4 (3%) 6 (2%) 3 (1%) Dyspepsia 6 (4%) 4 (1%) 2 (<1%) Wound hemorrhage 4 (3%) 4 (1%) 4 (1%) Abdominal discomfort 4 (3%) 2 (<1%) 0 Cough 4 (3%) 2 (<1%) 1 (<1%) Hypokalemia 5 (4%) 3 (<1%) 8 (3%) Fever Studies Fever studies were conducted in febrile hospitalized patients with malaria and febrile hospitalized patients with varying causes of fever. In hospitalized febrile patients with malaria, the adverse reactions observed in at least two Caldolor-treated patients included abdominal pain and nasal congestion. In hospitalized febrile patients (all causes), adverse reactions observed in more than two patients in any given treatment group are presented in the table below. Table 2: Patients with Adverse Reactions Observed in >= 3% of Patients in any Caldolor Treatment Group in All-Cause Fever Study Event Caldolor Placebo N=28 100 mg N=30 200 mg N=30 400 mg N=31 Any Reaction 27 (87%) 25 (83%) 23 (74%) 25 (89%) Anemia 5 (17%) 6 (20%) 11 (36%) 4 (14%) Eosinophilia 7 (23%) 7 (23%) 8 (26%) 7 (25%) Hypokalemia 4 (13%) 4 (13%) 6 (19%) 5 (18%) Hypoproteinemia 3 (10%) 0 4 (13%) 2 (7%) Neutropenia 2 (7%) 2 (7%) 4 (13%) 2 (7%) Blood urea increased 0 0 3 (10%) 0 Hypernatremia 2 (7%) 0 3 (10%) 0 Hypertension 0 0 3 (10%) 0 Hypoalbuminemia 3 (10%) 1 (3%) 3 (10%) 1 (4%) Hypotension 0 2 (7%) 3 (10%) 1 (4%) Diarrhea 3 (10%) 3 (10%) 2 (7%) 2 (7%) Pneumonia bacterial 3 (10%) 1 (3%) 2 (7%) 0 Blood LDH increased 3 (10%) 2 (7%) 1 (3%) 1 (4%) Thrombocythemia 3 (10%) 2 (7%) 1 (3%) 0 Bacteremia 4 (13%) 0 0 0"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5. 8)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Aseptic Meningitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Ophthalmological Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Most common adverse reactions (>=1% and greater than ibuprofen alone) are nausea, diarrhea, constipation, upper abdominal pain, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Horizon Pharma USA, Inc. at (1-866-479-6742) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of DUEXIS was evaluated in 1022 patients in controlled clinical studies, including 508 patients treated for at least 6 months and 107 patients treated for approximately 1 year. Patients treated with DUEXIS ranged in age from 39 to 80 years (median age 55 years), with 67% female, 79% Caucasian, 18% African-American, and 3% other races. Two randomized, active-controlled clinical studies (Study 301 and Study 303) were conducted for the reduction of the risk of development of ibuprofen-associated, upper gastrointestinal ulcers in patients who required use of ibuprofen, which included 1022 patients on DUEXIS and 511 patients on ibuprofen alone. Approximately 15% of patients were on low-dose aspirin. Patients were assigned randomly, in a 2:1 ratio, to treatment with either DUEXIS or ibuprofen 800 mg three times a day for 24 consecutive weeks Three serious cases of acute renal failure were observed in patients treated with DUEXIS in the two controlled clinical trials. All three patients recovered to baseline levels after discontinuation of DUEXIS. Additionally, increases in serum creatinine were observed in both treatment arms in the two clinical studies. Many of these patients were taking concomitant diuretics and/or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers. There were patients with a normal baseline serum creatinine level who developed abnormal values in the controlled trials as presented in Table 1. Table 1: Shift Table of Serum Creatinine, Normalserum creatinine normal range is 0.5 - 1.4 mg/dL or 44-124 micromol/L to Abnormalserum creatinine >1.4 mg/dL in Controlled Studies Study 301 Study 303 Baseline Post-BaselineAt any point after baseline level DUEXIS N=414 % (n) Ibuprofen N=207 % (n) DUEXIS N=598 % (n) Ibuprofen N=296 % (n) Normal Abnormal 4% (17) 2% (4) 2%(15) 4% (12) Most Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions (>=2%), from pooled data from the two controlled studies are presented in Table 2. Table 2: Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Controlled Studies DUEXIS N=1022 Ibuprofen N=511 % % Blood and lymphatic system disorders Anemia 2 1 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 6 5 Dyspepsia 5 8 Diarrhea 5 4 Constipation 4 4 Abdominal pain upper 3 3 Gastroesophageal reflux disease 2 3 Vomiting 2 2 Stomach discomfort 2 2 Abdominal pain 2 2 General disorders and administration site conditions Edema peripheral 2 2 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection 4 4 Nasopharyngitis 2 3 Sinusitis 2 3 Bronchitis 2 1 Urinary tract infection 2 2 Influenza 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Arthralgia 1 2 Back pain 2 1 Nervous system disorders Headache 3 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 2 2 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 2 1 Vascular disorders Hypertension 3 2 In controlled clinical studies, the discontinuation rate due to adverse events for patients receiving DUEXIS and ibuprofen alone were similar. The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation from DUEXIS therapy were nausea (0.9%) and upper abdominal pain (0.9%). There were no differences in types of related adverse reactions seen during maintenance treatment up to 12 months compared to short-term treatment. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Ibuprofen The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ibuprofen. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Cardiac disorders: myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal disorders: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: pyrexia, pain, fatigue, asthenia, chest pain, drug ineffective, edema peripheral Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia Nervous system disorders: headache, dizziness Psychiatric disorders: depression, anxiety Renal and urinary disorders: renal failure acute Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders: dyspnea Vascular disorders: hypertension Famotidine The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of famotidine. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Blood and lymphatic system disorders: anemia, thrombocytopenia Gastrointestinal disorders: nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: pyrexia, condition aggravated, asthenia, drug ineffective, chest pain, fatigue, pain, edema peripheral Hepatobiliary disorders: hepatic function abnormal Infections and infestations: pneumonia, sepsis Investigations: platelet count decreased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, alanine aminotransferase increased, hemoglobin decreased Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite Nervous system disorders: dizziness, headache Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders: dyspnea Vascular disorders: hypotension"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most-frequent adverse reactions observed in placebo-controlled, blinded clinical studies GL94-01, GL95-01, GL95-02 and GLB96-01 are as follows: The most common adverse event with PRASTERA(R) is acne. This is generally treatable with topical anti-acne medication. (\\302\\2476.1) Another common adverse reaction is hirsutism. Both acne and hirsutism are reversible on cessation of prasterone. (\\302\\2476.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact 1 (855) FLARE-FREE or FDA (1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ) or your doctor. 6.1 Increased Risk of Acne and Hirsutism Acne was the most frequently reported adverse event. Acne was reported less frequently by African American patients, in approximately 26%, compared to approximately 36% in Caucasian patients. The second most-frequent adverse event was hirsutism. In study GLB96-01 involving patients of Chinese extraction, hirsutism was not reported; this may indicate a decreased racial susceptibility to hirsutism. Acne and hirsutism were both reversible on cessation of prasterone therapy. In addition, both were more likely to be reported early in treatment; patients who had not developed these within the first 6 months of exposure are less likely to develop them later. 6.2 Reduced Risk of Myalgia and Other Flare Symptoms Placebo-treated patients had higher incidences of myalgia, joint disorder, anorexia, nasal ulcers and LE skin rash than did prasterone-treated patients. These differences may be due to the decreased risk of flare observed in prasterone-treated patients. \\302\\24714.1. 6.3 Other Common Adverse Events No adverse events increase in frequency with longer duration of treatment. The Table displays all adverse events reported in a frequency of 10% or greater from either the 200 mg dose group or the placebo group for the pooled double-blind phases of Studies GL94-01 and GL95-02. Because the number of patients who received prasterone 100 mg was substantially fewer, adverse events for this group are only presented for those adverse events which were reported in >= 10% of either placebo or prasterone 200 mg patients. ADVERSE EVENTS WITH FREQUENCY >=10%* (pooled GL94-01 and GL95-02 results) *Frequency > 10% in either prasterone 200 mg or placebo patients. ** P< 0.05, Placebo vs. prasterone 200 mg. COSTART TERM Placebo N=256 200mg N=253 Rash 77 (30.1%) 93 (36.8%) Acne 39 (15.2%) 91 (36.0%) ** Arthralgia 95 (37.1%) 88 (34.8%) Asthenia 70 (27.3%) 68 (26.9%) Headache 76 (29.7%) 60 (23.7%) Arthritis 58 (22.7%) 57 (22.5%) Myalgia 79 (30.9%) 55 (21.7%) ** Pain Abdomen 34 (13.3%) 41 (16.2%) Flu Syndrome 46 (18.0%) 40 (15.8%) Stomatitis Ulcer 50 (19.5%) 38 (15.0%) Hirsutism 6 (2.3%) 36 (14.2%) ** Fever 39 (15.2%) 36 (14.2%) Depression 33 (12.9%) 35 (13.8%) Alopecia 48 (18.8%) 35 (13.8%) Infection 37 (14.5%) 26 (10.3%) Sinusitis 33 (12.9%) 22 (8.7%) Pain Chest 27 (10.5%) 22 (8.7%) For adverse events occurring in < 10% of patients, the following showed an absolute difference of at least 3% between placebo or prasterone 200 mg, or, if less than 3% difference, the difference was significant (p < 0.05): ADVERSE EVENTS WITH FREQUENCY <10% AND AT LEAST A 3% OR A SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE (pooled GL94-01 and GL95-02 results) ** P< 0.05, Placebo vs. prasterone 200 mg. COSTART TERM Placebo N=256 prasterone 200 mg N=253 Less Frequent in Prasterone Anorexia 10 (3.9%) 2 (0.8%) ** Nasal Septum Disorder (nasal ulcers) 14 (5.5%) 5 (2.0%) ** Rash Lupus Erythematosus 13 (5.1%) 4 (1.6%) ** Joint Disorder 14 (5.5%) 4 (1.6%) ** More Frequent in Prasterone Creatinine Increase 0 (0.0%) 6 (2.4%)** Hypertension 7 (2.7%) 20 (7.9%) ** Hematuria 1 (0.4%) 9 (3.6%) ** Insignificant Difference Back Pain 16 (6.3%) 24 (9.5%) Pharyngitis 14 (5.5%) 6 (2.4%) Dyspnea 22 (8.6%) 11 (4.3%) Lymphadenopathy 21 (8.2%) 12 (4.7%) The pattern of adverse events in clinical study GLB96-01 showed a similar, but not identical pattern. Acne was the most common adverse event; this may reflect the fact that almost all patients were also receiving corticosteroids. This may also reflect racial differences in sensitivity to prasterone. By contrast, hirsutism was not reported at all in GLB96-01. ADVERSE EVENTS REPORTED BY AT LEAST 10% OF EITHER TREATMENT GROUP (GBL96-01) *P-value<0.05, Treatment vs. Placebo, chi-square test Placebo N= 59 Treatment N= 61 Arthralgia 37 ( 62.7%) 39 ( 63.9%) Acne * 17 ( 28.8%) 36 ( 59.0%)* Pharyngitis 32 ( 54.2%) 34 ( 55.7%) Myalgia 24 ( 40.7%) 28 ( 45.9%) Headache * 37 ( 62.7%) 26 ( 42.6%)* Pain Abdomen 25 ( 42.4%) 23 ( 37.7%) Asthenia 19 ( 32.2%) 18 ( 29.5%) Cough Increase 18 ( 30.5%) 18 ( 29.5%) Dizziness 19 ( 32.2%) 15 ( 24.6%) Pain Chest 11 ( 18.6%) 14 ( 23.0%) Dyspnea 8 ( 13.6%) 14 ( 23.0%) Rash 16 (27.1%) 14 ( 23.0%) Fever 17 ( 28.8%) 13 ( 21.3%) Alopecia 8 ( 13.6%) 13 ( 21.3%) Pain 8 ( 13.6%) 11 ( 18.0%) Diarrhea 11 ( 18.6%) 11 ( 18.0%) Rhinitis 13 ( 22.0%) 11 ( 18.0%) Stomatitis Ulcer 17 ( 28.8%) 10 ( 16.4%) Pain Back 10 ( 16.9%) 9 ( 14.8%) Edema 6 ( 10.2%) 9 ( 14.8%) Injury Accident 6 ( 10.2%) 8 ( 13.1%) Insomnia 7 ( 11.9%) 8 ( 13.1%) Pruritus 7 ( 11.9%) 8 ( 13.1%) Infection* 15 ( 25.4%) 6 ( 9.8%)* Dry Eye 10 ( 16.9%) 6 ( 9.8%) Vomit 8 ( 13.6%) 5 ( 8.2%) Peripheral Edema 8 ( 13.6%) 5 ( 8.2%) Rash Lupus Erythematosus 7 ( 11.9%) 5 ( 8.2%) Conjunctivitis 7 ( 11.9%) 5 ( 8.2%) Nausea 9 ( 15.3%) 4 ( 6.6%) Of adverse events reported by at least 10% of patients, acne was the only event significantly more frequent in the treatment group. Headache and infection were more frequent in the placebo group. Of the adverse events reported with an incidence of less than 10%, the only statistically significant difference was for seborrhea (0 placebo vs. 5 treatment patients). 6.3.1 Hypertension Hypertension was reported as an adverse event more frequently in the prasterone 200 mg group than placebo. When measures of increased (changed) blood pressure were included, there appeared to be no difference between the groups. Whether prasterone increases hypertension is thus not clear. 6.4 Reduced Risk of Death In the GL94-01, GL95-01 and GL95-02 placebo-controlled clinical studies (pooled data), the placebo group experienced 6 deaths in 77 patients, a risk of death of 7.8%. In contrast, the prasterone group (pooled treatment and cross-over) experienced 8 deaths in 495 patients, a risk of death of 1.6%. The risk of death from any cause was therefore five times higher in the placebo group. 6.5 Reduced Risk of Breast Cancer In the GL94-01, GL95-01 and GL95-02 placebo-controlled clinical studies (pooled data), incidence of breast cancer was 1 in 336 patient-years (0.29%) for placebo and 3 in 1573 patient-years (0.19%) for prasterone (pooled treatment and cross-over). Prasterone was thus associated with reducing the risk of breast cancer by one third. For patients over 44 years of age, the difference between placebo and prasterone groups was more pronounced. For women at least 45 years of age, the rate of breast cancer was 1 in 24 patient-years (4.2%) for placebo and 3 in 206 patient-years (1.5%) for prasterone treatment and cross-over patients. Prasterone was thus associated with reducing the risk of breast cancer by two thirds. 6.6 Other Serious Adverse Events Adverse events that were assessed as "severe" occurred in similar frequencies in both treatment and placebo groups, with asthenia being the most common adverse event reported as severe in both placebo and treated patients. Although the patient numbers are small, abdominal pain reported as a severe adverse event occurred in 6 treated 200 mg patients, 2 treated 100mg patients, and no placebo patients. Serious adverse events occurred in 39 200 mg, 7 100 mg, and 47 placebo patients participating in GL94-01 and GL95-02. However, only 3 serious adverse events were considered possibly related, 2 in the placebo group (one suicide and one patient with menomettrorhagia) and one in 200 mg (a patient with an acute psychosis). In the Taiwan study, serious adverse events were reported in a significantly higher proportion of patients in the placebo group than in the treatment group. In most cases, the types of serious adverse events reported were consistent with SLE flares or hospitalization for manifestations of SLE, rather than adverse effects of the study drug. SEVERE ADVERSE EVENTS OCCURRING IN AT LEAST 2 PATIENTS* (GL94-01 and GL95-02) *Frequency at least 2 patients in either prasterone 200 mg or placebo COSTART TERM Placebo N=256 prasterone 200 mg N=253 Asthenia 22 (8.6%) 22 (8.7%) Headache 11 (4.3%) 8( 3.2%) Arthralgia 6 (2.3%) 6 (2.4%) Pain Abdomen 0 (0%) 6 (2.4%) Rash 5 (2.0%) 6 (2.4%) Arthritis 2 (0.8%) 5 (2.0%) Dyspnea 1 (0.4%) 4 (1.6%) Depression 4 (1.6%) 2 (0.8%) Diabetes Mellitus 0 (0%) 2 (0.8%) Emotional Lability 0 (0%) 2 (0.8%) Infection 0 (0%) 2 (0.8%) Myalgia 5 (2.0%) 2 (0.8%) Pain 1 (0.4%) 2 (0.8%) Pain Chest 4 (1.6%) 2 (0.8%) Paresthesia 1 (0.4%) 2 (0.8%) Pleural Disorder 1 (0.4%) 2 (0.8%) Vasculitis 0 (0%) 2 (0.8%) Joint Disorder 2 (0.8%) 1 (0.4%) Peripheral Edema 2 (0.8%) 0 (0%) Sepsis 2 (0.8%) 0 (0%) Cyst 2 (0.8%) 0 (0%) Thinking Abnormal 2 (0.8%) 0 (0%)",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE inhibitors: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. (7.3) Aspirin: Concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. (7.1) 7.1 Aspirin When ibuprofen is administered with aspirin, ibuprofen's protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of Caldolor and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. 7.2 Anticoagulants The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a higher risk of serious GI bleeding than users of either drug alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.3 ACE Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. 7.4 Diuretics Clinical studies and postmarketing observations have shown that ibuprofen can reduce the natriuretic effects of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, observe patients closely for signs of renal failure, as well as to assure diuretic efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced elevations of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance of lithium decreased by 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This indicates that NSAIDs may enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.7 H-2 Antagonists In studies of human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactions of NeoProfen in neonates have not been assessed. Drug interactions in neonates have not been assessed. (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Studies with famotidine in man, in animal models, and in vitro have shown no significant interference with the disposition of compounds metabolized by the hepatic microsomal enzymes, e.g., cytochrome P450 system. Compounds tested in man include warfarin, theophylline, phenytoin, diazepam, aminopyrine and antipyrine. Indocyanine green as an index of hepatic drug extraction has been tested, and no significant effects have been found. See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with ibuprofen. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Ibuprofen Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Ibuprofen and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of ibuprofen and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of DUEXIS with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Concomitant use of DUEXIS and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. DUEXIS is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of DUEXIS and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of DUEXIS and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriurectic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of DUEXIS with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of ibuprofen with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of DUEXIS and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations of plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of DUEXIS and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of DUEXIS and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of DUEXIS and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of DUEXIS and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ibuprofen with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: The concomitant use of ibuprofen with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of DUEXIS and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of DUEXIS and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between permetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking DUEXIS with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of DUEXIS and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) ACE-Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with DUEXIS may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with DUEXIS in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) Digoxin: Concomitant use with DUEXIS can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7)"$$
"8 DRUG INTERACTIONS There is no known pharmacokinetic effect (bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, or pharmacodynamics) of prasterone on prednisone or hydroxychloroquine, with the possible exception of increasing the magnitude of a decrease in triglycerides seen with hydroxyquinoline. Prasterone may theoretically interact with one or more of the following drugs: carbamazepine, phenothiazines (e.g., acetophenazine, chlorpromazine, chlorprothixene, ethopropazine, fluphenazine, mesordiazine, methdilazine, perazine, perphenazine, pipotiazine, prochlorperazine, promazine, promethazine, propiomazine, thioridazine, trifluoperazine, triflupromazine), citalopram; escitalopram; clozapine, conjugated estrogens; estherified estrogens; estradiol; estradiol cypionate; estropipate; ethinyl estradiol, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine; haloperidol, lithium, loxapine, molindone, olanzapine, paroxetine, quetiapine, risperodone, sertraline, testosterone, triazolam and valproic acid. For further information on potential interactions with these drugs, please see The Cochrane Review monograph for prasterone. PRASTERA(R) may interact with certain psychiatric drugs. (\\302\\2478) Concomitant administration of PRASTERA(R) with endogenous testosterone or estrogens, or dietary supplements containing DHEA or dehydroepiandrosterone, is not generally recommended unless serum sex hormone levels are monitored, because of the potential to elevate levels above the ranges considered normal in healthy individuals. (\\302\\247\\302\\2477.1, 7.2.1, 8, 10, 16.3)",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets were administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Edema*. Respiratory Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses Tinnitus. Urogenital Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive Chalky stool; "Clenching teeth"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets were administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole: Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular: Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System: Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive: Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Edema*. Respiratory: Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urogenital: Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole: Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System: Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive: Chalky stool; \\\\"Clenching teeth\\\\"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory: Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses: Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital: Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets were administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Edema*. Respiratory Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses Tinnitus. Urogenital Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive Chalky stool; \\\\"Clenching teeth\\\\"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets were administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole: Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular: Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System: Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive: Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Edema*. Respiratory: Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urogenital: Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole: Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System: Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor; Vertigo. Digestive: Chalky stool; "Clenching teeth"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory: Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses: Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital: Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen was administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole: Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular: Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System: Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive: Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Edema*. Respiratory: Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urogenital: Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole: Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System: Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive: Chalky stool; \\\\"Clenching teeth\\\\"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory: Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses: Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital: Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen was administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen with 600 mg codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk* = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a whole: Abdominal pain*, Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%), Infection*, Pain. Cardiovascular: Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System: Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive: Anorexia, Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry Mouth, Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence, Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (12%), Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Edema*. Respiratory: Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urogenital: Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole: Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System: Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive: Chalky stool; "Clenching teeth"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory: Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses: Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital: Cystitis, Glyosuria; Impotence, Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking ibuprofen or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1-10% of patients are: abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, fluid retention, gastrointestinal experiences (including abdominal pain, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric pain, flatulence, heartburn, nausea, vomiting), headaches, increased bleeding time, nervousness, pruritus, rashes (including maculopapular) and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a whole - fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular system - congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive system - dry mouth, duodenitis, esophagitis, gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and lymphatic system - ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, purpura, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - weight changes Nervous system - anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory system - asthma, dyspnea Skin and appendages - alopecia, photosensitivity, sweat Special senses - blurred vision Urogenital system - cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, acute renal failure in patients with pre-existing significantly impaired renal function Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a whole - anaphylactic reactions, anaphylactoid reactions, appetite changes Cardiovascular system - arrhythmia, cerebrovascular accident, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive system - eructation, gingival ulcer, hepatorenal syndrome, liver necrosis, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and lymphatic system - agranulocystosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pancytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - hyperglycemia Nervous system - convulsions, coma, emotional lability, hallucinations, aseptic meningitis Respiratory - apnea, respiratory depression, pneumonia, rhinitis Skin and appendages - angioedema, toxic epidermal necrosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, urticaria, vesiculobullous eruptions Special senses - amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision), conjunctivitis, dry eyes, hearing impairment Urogenital - azotemia, decreased creatinine clearance, glomerulitis, renal papillary necrosis, tubular necrosis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking ibuprofen or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1-10% of patients are: Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, fluid retention, gastrointestinal experiences (including abdominal pain, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric pain, flatulence, heartburn, nausea, vomiting), headaches, increased bleeding time, nervousness, pruritus, rashes (including maculopapular) and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a whole - fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular system - congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive system - dry mouth, duodenitits, esophagitis, gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and lymphatic system - ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, purpura, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - weight changes Nervous system - anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory system - asthma, dyspnea Skin and appendages - alopecia, photosensitivity, sweat Special senses - blurred vision Urogenital system - cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, acute renal failure in patients with pre-existing significantly impaired renal function Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a whole - anaphylactic reactions, anaphylactoid reactions, appetite changes Cardiovascular system - arrhythmia, cerebrovascular accident, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive system - eructation, gingival ulcer, hepatorenal syndrome, liver necrosis, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and lymphatic system - agranulocystosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pancytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - hyperglycemia Nervous system - convulsions, coma, emotional lability hallucinations, aseptic meningitis Respiratory - apnea, respiratory depression, pneumonia, rhinitis Skin and appendages - angioedema, toxic epidermal necrosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, urticaria, vesiculobullous eruptions Special senses - amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision), conjunctivitis, dry eyes, hearing impairment Urogenital - azotemia, decreased creatinine clearance, glomerulitis, renal papillary necrosis, tubular necrosis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking ibuprofen or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1-10% of patients are: Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, fluid retention, gastrointestinal experiences (including abdominal pain, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric pain, flatulence, heartburn, nausea, vomiting), headaches, increased bleeding time, nervousness, pruritus, rashes (including maculopapular) and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a whole - fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular system - congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive system - dry mouth, duodenitits, esophagitis, gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and lymphatic system - ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, purpura, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - weight changes Nervous system - anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory system - asthma, dyspnea Skin and appendages - alopecia, photosensitivity, sweat Special senses - blurred vision Urogenital system - cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, acute renal failure in patients with pre-existing significantly impaired renal function Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a whole - anaphylactic reactions, anaphylactoid reactions, appetite changes Cardiovascular system - arrhythmia, cerebrovascular accident, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive system - eructation, gingival ulcer, hepatorenal syndrome, liver necrosis, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and lymphatic system - agranulocystosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pancytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - hyperglycemia Nervous system - convulsions, coma, emotional lability, hallucinations, aseptic meningitis Respiratory - apnea, respiratory depression, pneumonia, rhinitis Skin and appendages - angioedema, toxic epidermal necrosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, urticaria, vesiculobullous eruptions Special senses - amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision), conjunctivitis, dry eyes, hearing impairment Urogenital - azotemia, decreased creatinine clearance, glomerulitis, renal papillary necrosis, tubular necrosis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking ibuprofen or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1-10% of patients are: Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, fluid retention, gastrointestinal experiences (including abdominal pain, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric pain, flatulence, heartburn, nausea, vomiting), headaches, increased bleeding time, nervousness, pruritus, rashes (including maculopapular) and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a whole-fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular system-congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive system-dry mouth, duodenitits, esophagitis, gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and lymphatic system-ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, purpura, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and nutritional-weight changes Nervous system-anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory system-asthma, dyspnea Skin and appendages-alopecia, photosensitivity, sweat Special senses-blurred vision Urogenital system-cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, acute renal failure in patients with pre-existing significantly impaired renal function Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a whole-anaphylactic reactions, anaphylactoid reactions, appetite changes Cardiovascular system-arrhythmia, cerebrovascular accident, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive system-eructation, gingival ulcer, hepatorenal syndrome, liver necrosis, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and lymphatic system-agranulocystosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pancytopenia Metabolic and nutritional-hyperglycemia Nervous system-convulsions, coma, emotional lability hallucinations, aseptic meningitis Respiratory-apnea, respiratory depression, pneumonia, rhinitis Skin and appendages-angioedema, toxic epidermal necrosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, urticaria, vesiculobullous eruptions Special senses-amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision), conjunctivitis, dry eyes, hearing impairment Urogenital-azotemia, decreased creatinine clearance, glomerulitis, renal papillary necrosis, tubular necrosis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking ibuprofen or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1-10% of patients are: Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, fluid retention, gastrointestinal experiences (including abdominal pain, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric pain, flatulence, heartburn, nausea, vomiting), headaches, increased bleeding time, nervousness, pruritus, rashes (including maculopapular) and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a whole - fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular system - congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive system - dry mouth, duodenitits, esophagitis, gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and lymphatic system - ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, purpura, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - weight changes Nervous system - anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory system - asthma, dyspnea Skin and appendages - alopecia, photosensitivity, sweat Special senses - blurred vision Urogenital system - cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, acute renal failure in patients with pre-existing significantly impaired renal function Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a whole - anaphylactic reactions, anaphylactoid reactions, appetite changes Cardiovascular system - arrhythmia, cerebrovascular accident, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive system - eructation, gingival ulcer, hepatorenal syndrome, liver necrosis, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and lymphatic system - agranulocystosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pancytopenia Metabolic and nutritional - hyperglycemia Nervous system - convulsions, coma, emotional lability, hallucinations, aseptic meningitis Respiratory - apnea, respiratory depression, pneumonia, rhinitis Skin and appendages - angioedema, toxic epidermal necrosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, uticaria, vesiculobullous eruptions Special senses - amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision), conjunctivitis, dry eyes, hearing impairment Urogenital - azotemia, decreased creatinine clearance, glomerulitis, renal papillary necrosis, tubular necrosis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Listed below are the adverse event incidence rates from single dose analgesia trials in which a total of 2437 patients received either oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen combination product, ibuprofen (400 mg), oxycodone hydrochloride (5 mg), or placebo. Adverse event information is also provided from an additional 334 patients who were exposed to oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen combination product in a multiple dose analgesia trial, without placebo or active component comparison arms, given up to four times daily for up to 7 days. Adverse Events Which Occurred at a Frequency of >=1% and at a Higher Incidence than in the Placebo Group in Single Dose Studies 5 mg 400 mg Oxycodone 5/400 mg Ibuprofen Hydrochloride Placebo (n=923) (n=913) (n = 286) (n=315) Digestive Nausea 81 (8.8%) 44 (4.8%) 46 (16.1%) 21 6.7%) Vomiting 49 (5.3%) 16 (1.8%) 30 (10.5%) 10 (3.2%) Flatulence 9 (1.0%) 7 (0.8%) 3 (1.0%) 0 Nervous System Somnolence 67 (7.3%) 38 (4.2%) 12 (4.2%) 7 (2.2%) Dizziness 47 (5.1%) 21 (2.3%) 17 (5.9%) 8 (2.5%) Skin and Appendages Sweat 15 (1.6%) 7 (0.8%) 4 (1.4%) 1 (0.3%) Adverse events that were reported by at least 1% of patients taking oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen but were observed at a greater incidence in the placebo treated patients were fever, headache and pruritus. Adverse events that occurred in less than 1% and in at least two oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen treated patients in Single Dose studies not listed above include the following: Body as Whole: abdominal pain, asthenia, chest pain, enlarged abdomen. Cardiovascular System: hypotension, syncope, tachycardia, vasodilation. Digestive System: constipation, dry mouth, dyspepsia, eructation, ileus. Hemic and Lymphatic System: anemia. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: edema. Nervous System: euphoria, insomnia, nervousness. Respiratory System: hypoxia, lung disorder, pharyngitis. Urogenital System: urinary retention. Adverse events that occurred in the Multiple Dose study in at least 2% of patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen include the following: Body as Whole: asthenia (3.3%), fever (3.0%), headache (10.2%). Cardiovascular System: vasodilation (3.0%). Digestive System: constipation (4.5%), diarrhea (2.1%), dyspepsia (2.1%), nausea (25.4%), vomiting (4.5%). Nervous System: dizziness (19.2%), somnolence (17.4%). Adverse events that occurred in less than 2% of and at least two oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen treated patients in the Multiple Dose study not listed previously include the following: Body as Whole: back pain, chills, infection. Cardiovascular System: thrombophlebitis. Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypokalemia. Musculoskeletal System: arthritis. Nervous System: abnormal thinking, anxiety, hyperkinesia, hypertonia. Skin and Appendages: rash. Special Senses: amblyopia, taste perversion. Urogenital System: urinary frequency."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Listed below are the adverse event incidence rates from single dose analgesia trials in which a total of 2437 patients received either oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen combination product, ibuprofen (400 mg), oxycodone hydrochloride (5 mg), or placebo. Adverse event information is also provided from an additional 334 patients who were exposed to oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen combination product in a multiple dose analgesia trial, without placebo or active component comparison arms, given up to four times daily for up to 7 days. Adverse Events Which Occurred at a Frequency of >=1% and at a Higher Incidence than in the Placebo Group in Single Dose Studies 5 mg 400 mg Oxycodone 5/400 mg Ibuprofen Hydrochloride Placebo (n=923) (n=913) (n = 286) (n=315) Digestive Nausea 81 (8.8%) 44 (4.8%) 46 (16.1%) 21( 6.7%) Vomiting 49 (5.3%) 16 (1.8%) 30 (10.5%) 10 (3.2%) Flatulence 9 (1.0%) 7 (0.8%) 3 (1.0%) 0 Nervous System Somnolence 67 (7.3%) 38 (4.2%) 12 (4.2%) 7 (2.2%) Dizziness 47 (5.1%) 21 (2.3%) 17 (5.9%) 8 (2.5%) Skin and Appendages Sweat 15 (1.6%) 7 (0.8%) 4 (1.4%) 1 (0.3%) Adverse events that were reported by at least 1% of patients taking oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen but were observed at a greater incidence in the placebo treated patients were fever, headache and pruritus. Adverse events that occurred in less than 1% and in at least two oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen treated patients in Single Dose studies not listed above include the following: Body as Whole: abdominal pain, asthenia, chest pain, enlarged abdomen. Cardiovascular System: hypotension, syncope, tachycardia, vasodilation. Digestive System: constipation, dry mouth, dyspepsia, eructation, ileus. Hemic and Lymphatic System: anemia. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: edema. Nervous System: euphoria, insomnia, nervousness. Respiratory System: hypoxia, lung disorder, pharyngitis. Urogenital System: urinary retention. Adverse events that occurred in the Multiple Dose study in at least 2% of patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen include the following: Body as Whole: asthenia (3.3%), fever (3.0%), headache (10.2%). Cardiovascular System: vasodilation (3.0%). Digestive System: constipation (4.5%), diarrhea (2.1%), dyspepsia (2.1%), nausea (25.4%), vomiting (4.5%). Nervous System: dizziness (19.2%), somnolence (17.4%). Adverse events that occurred in less than 2% of and at least two oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen treated patients in the Multiple Dose study not listed previously include the following: Body as Whole: back pain, chills, infection. Cardiovascular System: thrombophlebitis. Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypokalemia. Musculoskeletal System: arthritis. Nervous System: abnormal thinking, anxiety, hyperkinesia, hypertonia. Skin and Appendages: rash. Special Senses: amblyopia, taste perversion. Urogenital System: urinary frequency. Postmarketing Experience serotonin syndrome adrenal insufficiency Androgen deficiency Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as symptoms of hypogonadism, such as impotence, erectile dysfunction, or amenorrhea. The causal role of opioids in the syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date. Patients presenting with symptoms of androgen deficiency should undergo laboratory evaluation. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-432-8534 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Listed below are the adverse event incidence rates from single dose analgesia trials in which a total of 2437 patients received either oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets, ibuprofen (400 mg), oxycodone hydrochloride (5 mg), or placebo. Adverse event information is also provided from an additional 334 patients who were exposed to oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets in a multiple dose analgesia trial, without placebo or active component comparison arms, given up to four times daily for up to 7 days. Adverse Events Which Occurred at a Frequency of >= 1% and at a Higher Incidence than in the Placebo Group in Single Dose Studies 5/400 mg (n=923) 400 mg Ibuprofen (n=913) 5 mg Oxycodone Hydrochloride (n=286) Placebo (n=315) Digestive Nausea 81 (8.8%) 44 (4.8%) 46 (16.1%) 21 (6.7%) Vomiting 49 (5.3%) 16 (1.8%) 30 (10.5%) 10 (3.2%) Flatulence 9 (1.0%) 7 (0.8%) 3 (1.0%) 0 Nervous System Somnolence 67 (7.3%) 38 (4.2%) 12 (4.2%) 7 (2.2%) Dizziness 47 (5.1%) 21 (2.3%) 17 (5.9%) 8 (2.5%) Skin and Appendages Sweat 15 (1.6%) 7 (0.8%) 4 (1.4%) 1 (0.3%) Adverse events that were reported by at least 1% of patients taking oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets but were observed at a greater incidence in the placebo treated patients were fever, headache and pruritus. Adverse events that occurred in less than 1% and in at least two oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets treated patients in Single Dose studies not listed above include the following: Body as Whole: abdominal pain, asthenia, chest pain, enlarged abdomen. Cardiovascular System: hypotension, syncope, tachycardia, vasodilation. Digestive System: constipation, dry mouth, dyspepsia, eructation, ileus. Hemic and Lymphatic System: anemia. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: edema. Nervous System: euphoria, insomnia, nervousness. Respiratory System: hypoxia, lung disorder, pharyngitis. Urogenital System: urinary retention. Adverse events that occurred in the Multiple Dose study in at least 2% of patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets include the following: Body as Whole: asthenia (3.3%), fever (3.0%), headache (10.2%). Cardiovascular System: vasodilation (3.0%). Digestive System: constipation (4.5%), diarrhea (2.1%), dyspepsia (2.1%), nausea (25.4%), vomiting (4.5%). Nervous System: dizziness (19.2%), somnolence (17.4%). Adverse events that occurred in less than 2% of and at least two oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets treated patients in the Multiple Dose study not listed previously include the following: Body as Whole: back pain, chills, infection. Cardiovascular System: thrombophlebitis. Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypokalemia. Musculoskeletal System: arthritis. Nervous System: abnormal thinking, anxiety, hyperkinesia, hypertonia. Skin and Appendages: rash. Special Senses: amblyopia, taste perversion. Urogenital System: urinary frequency."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS REPREXAIN(TM) was administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of REPREXAIN(TM) an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of REPREXAIN(TM), without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole: Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular: Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System: Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive: Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Edema*. Respiratory: Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urogenital: Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole: Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System: Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive: Chalky stool; \\\\"Clenching teeth\\\\"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory: Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses: Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital: Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"Adverse Reactions Section The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) probable casual Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) probable Casual Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Casual Relationship Unknown* GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric paint, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritis Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjuctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRADICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupuserythematosus syndrome, Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed duri Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. ng controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occuring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal RelationshipReactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positive rechallange or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under \\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown GASTROINTESTINAL NauseaReactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.), epigastric pain, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence). Gastic or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomina, confusion, emotional lability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (See PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudotumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia. Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallerigc skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs Positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinustachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, hematuria. Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"Adverse Reactions The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONSThe most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked). Ibuprofen2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked). Ibuprofen2 Label"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. image description"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with Ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Casual Relationship* Precise incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Casual Relationship** Precise incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Casual of Relationship Unknown** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudotumor cerebri Dizziness*, headache, nervousness DERMATOLOGIC Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, StevenJohnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions Rash*, (including maculpapular type), pruritus SPECIAL SENSES Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, StevenJohnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions Tinnitus HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophillia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ ENDOCRINE Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis Decreased appetite CARDIOVASCULAR Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardia function, elevate blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, poliuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients with IBU. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) * * Reactions are classified under "Probable Casual Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be casually related. Reactions are classified under "Casual Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported by the criteria for PCR have not been met."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal . In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4%to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1%are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis . The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1%(but less than 3%) probable casual Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) probable Casual Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Casual Relationship Unknown* GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric paint, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritis Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjuctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRADICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupuserythematosus syndrome, Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis *Reactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under \\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Reactions occurring in 3%to 9%of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3%of the patients are unmarked)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal . In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4%to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1%are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis . The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1%(but less than 3%) probable casual Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) probable Casual Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Casual Relationship Unknown* GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric paint, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritis Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjuctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRADICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupuserythematosus syndrome, Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis *Reactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under \\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Reactions occurring in 3%to 9%of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3%of the patients are unmarked)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) probable casual Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) probable Casual Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Casual Relationship Unknown* *Reactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under \\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met.  Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked). GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea , epigastric paint , heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness , headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritis Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjuctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRADICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupuserythematosus syndrome, Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) probable casual Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) probable Casual Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Casual Relationship Unknown* *Reactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under \\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked). GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric paint, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritis Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjuctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRADICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupuserythematosus syndrome, Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship\\302\\255 Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash*, (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and /or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (e.g., epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevate blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, poliuria, azotemia, cystitis, hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis *Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked). **Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with IBUPROFEN tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when IBUPROFEN tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with IBUPROFEN tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with IBUPROFEN tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional lability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (See PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with IBUPROFEN tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with Ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, Acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis *Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) **Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability ofa causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1 % ( but less than 3 %) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown ( but less than 1 %) Probable Causal Relationship ** Precise Incidence Unknown ( but less than 1 %) Causal Relationship Unknown ** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash*, (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and /or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (e.g., epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC / ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevate blood pressure,palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, poliuria, azotemia, cystitis, hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis *Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked). **Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship ( PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under " CausalRelationship Unknown " if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown* GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric pain, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis *Reactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under \\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under " " if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under " " if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Probable Causal Relationship (PCR) Causal Relationship Unknown GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see ) PRECAUTIONS Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see ) PRECAUTIONS Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see ) PRECAUTIONS Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria PRECAUTIONS Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under " Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under " Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under \\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (e.g., epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis tests; pancreatitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with Ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal RelationshipReactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with Ibuprofen. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal RelationshipReactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric pain, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudotumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash, (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia,agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevate blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, poliuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Unknown* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric pain, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional lability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupuserythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis * Reactions are classified under \\\\"Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)\\\\" if there has been one positiverechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under\\\\"Causal Relationship Unknown\\\\" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR havenot been met.  Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring inless than 3% of the patients are unmarked)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Unknown* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship* Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea, epigastric pain, heartburn, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional lability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS ) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS ) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS ) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) Serum sickness, lupuserythematosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS ), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis *Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Incidence Greater Than 1%Precise Incidence UnknownPrecise Incidence(but less than 3%)(but less than 1%)UnknownProbable Causal RelationshipProbable Causal Relationship**(but less than 1%)Causal RelationshipUnknown**GASTROINTESTINALNausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*,Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/orParasthesias,diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea, andperforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage,hallucinations, dreamvomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominalmelena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormalabnormalities, pseudo-cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloatingtumor cerebriand flatulence)CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEMDizziness*, headache, nervousnessDepression, insomnia, confusion, emotionalParesthesias,liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis withhallucinations, dreamfever and coma (seePRECAUTIONS)abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebriDERMATOLOGICRash* (including maculopapular type), pruritusVesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythemaToxic epidermalmultiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome,necrolysis, photoallergicalopeciaskin reactions neuritis,cataractsSPECIAL SENSESTinnitusHearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/ orConjunctivitis, diplopia,diminished vision, scotomata and/or changesoptic neuritis, cataractsin color vision) (seePRECAUTIONS)HEMATOLOGICNeutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia,Bleeding episodes (eghemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombsepistaxis, menorrhagia)positive), thrombocytopenia with or withoutpurpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobinand hematocrit (seePRECAUTIONS)METABOLIC/ENDOCRINEDecreased appetiteGynecomastia,hypoglycemic reaction,acidosisCARDIOVASCULAREdema, fluid retention (generally respondsCongestive heart failure in patients withArrhythmias (sinuspromptly to drug discontinuation) (seemarginal cardiac function, elevated bloodtachycardia, sinusPRECAUTIONS)pressure, palpitationsbradycardia)ALLERGICSyndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills,Serum sickness, lupuserythe- matosusspasm (seeCONTRAINDICATIONS)syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis,angioedemaRENALAcute renal failure (seePRECAUTIONS),Renal papillary necrosisdecreased creatinine clearance, polyuria,azotemia, cystitis, HematuriaMISCELLANEOUSDry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified underProbable Causal Relationship (PCR)if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified underCausal Relationship Unknownif seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. MM2"$$
"Adverse Reactions The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. Please review the manufacturer's complete drug information available from the FDA at www.fda.gov Permanent Link: http://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=24731405-219c-79b4-ecf0-7d5fbfda94ba"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with Ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. table"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with Ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. table"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. table"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Table"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. Table"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with Ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. Table Image"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring withIbuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials thepercentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaintsranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when Ibuprofen tablets were compared toaspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidenceof gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in eitherthe aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at anincidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listedin Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods ofat least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 werereported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience.These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column twoof the table lists reactions with therapy with Ibuprofen tablets wherethe probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions inColumn three, a causal relationship with Ibuprofen tablets has notbeen established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day thanat doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients withrheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and stillwithin the ranges reported in the table. MM2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. to report suspected adverse reactions and 1-800-FDA-1088 Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints ranged from 4% to 16%. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin- or indomethacin-treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1% are listed in the table. Those reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and from marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg/day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993; email drugsafety@avkare.com ; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . Incidence Greater Than 1% (but less than 3%) Probable Causal Relationship Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Probable Causal Relationship** Precise Incidence Unknown (but less than 1%) Causal Relationship Unknown** * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with ibuprofen tablets. (Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.) ** Reactions are classified under "Probable Causal Relationship (PCR)" if there has been one positive rechallenge or if three or more cases occur which might be causally related. Reactions are classified under "Causal Relationship Unknown" if seven or more events have been reported but the criteria for PCR have not been met. GASTROINTESTINAL Nausea*, epigastric pain*, heartburn*, diarrhea, abdominal distress, nausea and vomiting, indigestion, constipation, abdominal cramps or Pain, fullness of GI tract (bloating and flatulence) Gastric or duodenal ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, gastritis, hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests; pancreatitis CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dizziness*, headache, nervousness Depression, insomnia, confusion, emotional liability, somnolence, aseptic meningitis with fever and coma (see PRECAUTIONS) Paresthesias, hallucinations, dream abnormalities, pseudo-tumor cerebri DERMATOLOGIC Rash* (including maculopapular type), pruritus Vesiculobullous eruptions, urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, alopecia Toxic epidermal necrolysis, photoallergic skin reactions neuritis, cataracts SPECIAL SENSES Tinnitus Hearing loss, amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or changes in color vision) (see PRECAUTIONS) Conjunctivitis, diplopia, optic neuritis, cataracts HEMATOLOGIC Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (sometimes Coombs positive), thrombocytopenia with or without purpura, eosinophilia, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (see PRECAUTIONS) Bleeding episodes (eg epistaxis, menorrhagia) METABOLIC/ENDOCRINE Decreased appetite Gynecomastia, hypoglycemic reaction, acidosis CARDIOVASCULAR Edema, fluid retention (generally responds promptly to drug discontinuation) (see PRECAUTIONS) Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function, elevated blood pressure, palpitations Arrhythmias (sinus tachycardia, sinus bradycardia) ALLERGIC Syndrome of abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea and vomiting; anaphylaxis; bronchospasm (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) Serum sickness, lupus erythe- matosus syndrome. Henoch-Schonlein vasculitis, angioedema RENAL Acute renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS), decreased creatinine clearance, polyuria, azotemia, cystitis, Hematuria Renal papillary necrosis MISCELLANEOUS Dry eyes and mouth, gingival ulcer, rhinitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent type of adverse reaction occurring with ibuprofen tablets is gastrointestinal. In controlled clinical trials the percentage of patients reporting one or more gastrointestinal complaints were ranged form 4 % to 16 %. In controlled studies when ibuprofen tablets were compared to aspirin and indomethacin in equally effective doses, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal complaints was about half that seen in either the aspirin - or indomethacin - treated patients. Adverse reactions observed during controlled clinical trials at an incidence greater than 1 % are listed in the table. These reactions listed in Column one encompass observations in approximately 3,000 patients. More than 500 of these patients were treated for periods of at least 54 weeks. Still other reactions occurring less frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials and form marketing experience. These reactions have been divided into two categories: Column two of the table lists reactions with therapy with ibuprofen tablets where the probability of a causal relationship exists: for the reactions in Column three, a causal relationship with ibuprofen tablets has not been established. Reported side effects were higher at doses of 3200 mg / day than at doses of 2400 mg or less per day in clinical trials of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The increases in incidence were slight were slight and still within the ranges reported in the table."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS VICOPROFEN was administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of VICOPROFEN an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of VICOPROFEN, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Edema*. Respiratory Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses Tinnitus. Urogenital Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive Chalky stool; "Clenching teeth"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS VICOPROFEN was administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of VICOPROFEN an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of VICOPROFEN, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Edema*. Respiratory Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses Tinnitus. Urogenital Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive Chalky stool; \\\\"Clenching teeth\\\\"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS XYLON(TM) was administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose. The event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of XYLON(TM) an average of three to four times daily. The overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg. The following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of XYLON(TM), without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug. To distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event = less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk * = 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses. Body as a Whole: Abdominal pain*; Asthenia*; Fever; Flu syndrome; Headache (27%); Infection*; Pain. Cardiovascular: Palpitations; Vasodilation. Central Nervous System: Anxiety*; Confusion; Dizziness (14%); Hypertonia; Insomnia*; Nervousness*; Paresthesia; Somnolence (22%); Thinking abnormalities. Digestive: Anorexia; Constipation (22%); Diarrhea*; Dry mouth*; Dyspepsia (12%); Flatulence*; Gastritis; Melena; Mouth ulcers; Nausea (21%); Thirst; Vomiting*. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Edema*. Respiratory: Dyspnea; Hiccups; Pharyngitis; Rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus*; Sweating*. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urogenital: Urinary frequency. Incidence less than 1% Body as a Whole: Allergic reaction. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia; Hypotension; Tachycardia. Central Nervous System: Agitation; Abnormal dreams; Decreased libido; Depression; Euphoria; Mood changes; Neuralgia; Slurred speech; Tremor, Vertigo. Digestive: Chalky stool; \\\\"Clenching teeth\\\\"; Dysphagia; Esophageal spasm; Esophagitis; Gastroenteritis; Glossitis; Liver enzyme elevation. Metabolic and Nutritional: Weight decrease. Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia; Myalgia. Respiratory: Asthma; Bronchitis; Hoarseness; Increased cough; Pulmonary congestion; Pneumonia; Shallow breathing; Sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: Rash; Urticaria. Special Senses: Altered vision; Bad taste; Dry eyes. Urogenital: Cystitis; Glycosuria; Impotence; Urinary incontinence; Urinary retention."$$
"Allergy alert: Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to Aspirin. Symptoms may include hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or non prescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed",$$
"Drug Interactions"$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin When hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Diuretics Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Anticholinergics: The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants: The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin: When hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Diuretics: Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS - Renal Effects ), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium: Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate: Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone.",$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin When hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Diuretics Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may increase the effect of either the anti-depressant or hydrocodone. MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin When hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Diuretics Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS-Renal Effects ), as well as efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesics such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors.This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on warfarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on warfarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on warfarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on warfarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen oral suspension can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS - Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on warfarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on warfarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of IBUPROFEN and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen suspension can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS - Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on warfarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on warfarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, haveshown that Ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-offurosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has beenattributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitanttherapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closelyfor signs of renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Renal Effects), aswell as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and areduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers.The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during thisperiod of concomitant drug administration.This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administeredconcurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signsof lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before useof such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexateaccumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they couldenhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used whenNSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that Ibuprofentablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of otherclotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-typeanticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported whenIBU tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients oncoumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautiouswhen administering IBU tablets to patients on anticoagulants. Theeffects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, suchthat the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleedinghigher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidineor ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofenserum concentrations."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seeWARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. AspirinWhen Ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein bindingis reduced, although the clearance of free Ibuprofen tablets is notaltered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however,as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofenand aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential forincreased adverse effects."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19%during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy). Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations.",$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACEinhibitors. Aspirin When IBUPROFEN tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free IBUPROFEN tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that IBUPROFEN tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that IBUPROFEN tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin- type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when IBUPROFEN tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering IBUPROFEN tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration.This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of Warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations. Pregnancy Teratogenic effects-Pregnancy Category C Reproductive studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated evidence of developmental abnormalities. However, animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Ibuprofen tablets should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nonteratogenic effects Because of the known effects of NSAIDs on the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during late pregnancy should be avoided."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations. Pregnancy Teratogenic effects: Pregnancy Category C Reproductive studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated evidence of developmental abnormalities. However, animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Ibuprofen tablets should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nonteratogenic effects Because of the known effects of NSAIDs on the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during late pregnancy should be avoided. Labor and Delivery In rat studies with NSAIDs, as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, an increased incidence of dystocia, delayed parturition, and decreased pup survival occurred. The effects of ibuprofen tablets on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ibuprofen tablets, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ibuprofen tablets in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use As with any NSAIDs, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly (65 years and older)."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. AspirinWhen IBU tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein bindingis reduced, although the clearance of free IBU tablets is notaltered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however,as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofenand aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential forincreased adverse effects."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. AspirinWhen IBU tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein bindingis reduced, although the clearance of free IBU tablets is notaltered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however,as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofenand aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential forincreased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, haveshown that Ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-offurosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has beenattributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitanttherapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closelyfor signs of renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Renal Effects), aswell as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and areduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers.The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during thisperiod of concomitant drug administration.This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administeredconcurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signsof lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before useof such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexateaccumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they couldenhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used whenNSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that Ibuprofentablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of otherclotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-typeanticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported whenIBU tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients oncoumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautiouswhen administering IBU tablets to patients on anticoagulants. Theeffects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, suchthat the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleedinghigher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidineor ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofenserum concentrations."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. AspirinWhen IBU tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein bindingis reduced, although the clearance of free IBU tablets is notaltered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however,as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofenand aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential forincreased adverse effects. DiureticsClinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, haveshown that Ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-offurosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has beenattributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitanttherapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closelyfor signs of renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Renal Effects), aswell as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and areduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers.The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during thisperiod of concomitant drug administration.This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administeredconcurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signsof lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before useof such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexateaccumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they couldenhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used whenNSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that Ibuprofentablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of otherclotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-typeanticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported whenIBU tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients oncoumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautiouswhen administering IBU tablets to patients on anticoagulants. Theeffects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, suchthat the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleedinghigher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidineor ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofenserum concentrations."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When IBU tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein reduced, although the clearance of free IBU tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, haveshown that Ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-offurosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has beenattributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitanttherapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closelyfor signs of renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Renal Effects), aswell as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and areduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers.The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during thisperiod of concomitant drug administration.This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administeredconcurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signsof lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before useof such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexateaccumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they couldenhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used whenNSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that Ibuprofentablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of otherclotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-typeanticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported whenIBU tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients oncoumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautiouswhen administering IBU tablets to patients on anticoagulants. Theeffects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, suchthat the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleedinghigher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidineor ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofenserum concentrations."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, haveshown that Ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-offurosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has beenattributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitanttherapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closelyfor signs of renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Renal Effects), aswell as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and areduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers.The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during thisperiod of concomitant drug administration.This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administeredconcurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signsof lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before useof such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexateaccumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they couldenhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used whenNSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that Ibuprofentablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of otherclotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-typeanticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported whenIBU tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients oncoumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautiouswhen administering IBU tablets to patients on anticoagulants. Theeffects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, suchthat the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleedinghigher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidineor ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofenserum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking REPREXAIN(TM) concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) or tricyclic antidepressants with REPREXAIN(TM) may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin When REPREXAIN(TM) is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free REPREXAIN(TM) is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of REPREXAIN(TM) and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with REPREXAIN(TM) may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Diuretics Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with REPREXAIN(TM) the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS - Renal Effects ), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when REPREXAIN(TM) and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when REPREXAIN(TM) is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking VICOPROFEN concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) or tricyclic antidepressants with VICOPROFEN may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin When VICOPROFEN is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free VICOPROFEN is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of VICOPROFEN and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with VICOPROFEN may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Diuretics Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with VICOPROFEN the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS - Renal Effects), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when VICOPROFEN and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when VICOPROFEN is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACEinhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking VICOPROFEN concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOls) or tricyclic antidepressants with VICOPROFEN may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOls have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOls or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin When VICOPROFEN is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free VICOPROFEN is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID containing products, concomitant administration of VICOPROFEN and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with VICOPROFEN may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Furosemide Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with VICOPROFEN the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS - Renal Effects), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when VICOPROFEN and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when VICOPROFEN is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on Gl bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious Gl bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking XYLON(TM) concomitantly with ACEinhibitors. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. Antidepressants The use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) or tricyclic antidepressants with XYLON(TM) may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Aspirin When XYLON(TM) is administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free XYLON(TM) is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of XYLON(TM) and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with XYLON(TM) may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Diuretics Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with XYLON(TM) the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS - Renal Effects ), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when XYLON(TM) and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when XYLON(TM) is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACEinhibitors. Aspirin When IBUPROFEN tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free IBUPROFEN tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that IBUPROFEN tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that IBUPROFEN tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin- type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when IBUPROFEN tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering IBUPROFEN tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets is achieved [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ]. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Central Nervous System Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of CNS depressants such as alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Consider dose reduction of one or both drugs. Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension [see WARNINGS ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients ]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Anticholinergics The concurrent use of anticholinergics with oxycodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however as with other products containing NSAIDs, concomitant administration of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure [see WARNINGS ; Renal Effects ], as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen has been shown to produce an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a greater risk of serious GI bleeding than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Anticholinergics: The concurrent use of anticholinergics with oxycodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin: When oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however as with other products containing NSAIDs, concomitant administration of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics: Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS; Renal Effects), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium: Ibuprofen has been shown to produce an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate: Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a greater risk of serious GI bleeding than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Anticholinergics: The concurrent use of anticholinergics with oxycodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin: When oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets are not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however as with other products containing NSAIDs, concomitant administration of oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics: Ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS; Renal Effects ), as well as diuretic efficacy. Lithium: Ibuprofen has been shown to produce an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate: Ibuprofen, as well as other NSAIDs, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when oxycodone hydrochloride and ibuprofen tablets are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a greater risk of serious GI bleeding than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given considerationin patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. ACE-inhibitors: When IBU tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein bindingis reduced, although the clearance of free IBU tablets is notaltered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however,as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofenand aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential forincreased adverse effects. Aspirin"$$
"Warnings Do not use if allergic to iodine in the eyes For external use only Ask a doctor before use if injuries are deep or puncture wounds serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if redness, irritation, swelling or pain persists or increases infection occurs Avoid pooling beneath patient Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professionalassistance or consult a poison control center immediately."$$
