"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating COPD or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing LABA because of risk of overdose. (5.3, 7.1) If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, discontinue UTIBRON NEOHALER immediately and institute alternative therapy. (5.4) Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular or convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, sensitivity to sympathomimetic drugs, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.6, 5.7, 7.1) Worsening of narrow-angle glaucoma or urinary retention may occur. Use with caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, prostatic hyperplasia, or bladder-neck obstruction and instruct patients to contact a physician immediately if symptoms occur. (5.8, 5.9) Be alert to hypokalemia and hyperglycemia. (5.10) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death [see Boxed Warning] Data from a large placebo-controlled U.S. study in asthma patients showed that LABAs may increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data are not available to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. A 28-week, placebo-controlled U.S. study comparing the safety of another LABA (salmeterol) with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol (13/13,176 in patients treated with salmeterol versus 3/13,179 in patients treated with placebo; RR 4.37, 95% CI 1.25, 15.34). The increased risk of asthma-related death is considered a class effect of the LABAs, including indacaterol, one of the ingredients in UTIBRON NEOHALER. No study adequate to determine whether the rate of asthma-related death is increased in patients treated with UTIBRON NEOHALER has been conducted. The safety and efficacy of UTIBRON NEOHALER in patients with asthma have not been established. UTIBRON NEOHALER is not indicated for the treatment of asthma. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes UTIBRON NEOHALER should not be initiated in patients with acutely deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of COPD. UTIBRON NEOHALER has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The initiation of UTIBRON NEOHALER in this setting is not appropriate. UTIBRON NEOHALER should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. UTIBRON NEOHALER has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta2-agonist. When beginning UTIBRON NEOHALER, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs and use them only for symptomatic relief of acute respiratory symptoms. When prescribing UTIBRON NEOHALER, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist and instruct the patient on how it should be used. Increasing inhaled beta2-agonist use is a signal of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is indicated. COPD may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer. If UTIBRON NEOHALER no longer controls the symptoms of bronchoconstriction; the patient's inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist becomes less effective; or the patient needs more inhalation of short-acting beta2-agonist than usual, these may be markers of deterioration of disease. In this setting, a re-evaluation of the patient and the COPD treatment regimen should be undertaken at once. Increasing the daily dose of UTIBRON NEOHALER beyond the recommended dose is not appropriate in this situation. 5.3 Excessive Use of UTIBRON NEOHALER and Use with Other Long-Acting Beta2-Adrenergic Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergics, UTIBRON NEOHALER should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using UTIBRON NEOHALER should not use another medicine containing a LABA for any reason [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.4 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled medicines, UTIBRON NEOHALER can produce paradoxical bronchospasm that may be life-threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with UTIBRON NEOHALER, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; UTIBRON NEOHALER should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 5.5 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported after administration of indacaterol or glycopyrrolate, the components of UTIBRON NEOHALER. If signs suggesting allergic reactions occur, in particular, angioedema (including difficulties in breathing or swallowing, swelling of tongue, lips and face), urticaria, or skin rash, UTIBRON NEOHALER should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. UTIBRON NEOHALER should be used with caution in patients with severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins. 5.6 Cardiovascular Effects Indacaterol, like other beta2-agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, or symptoms. If such effects occur, UTIBRON NEOHALER may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression, although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Therefore, UTIBRON NEOHALER should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. 5.7 Coexisting Conditions UTIBRON NEOHALER, like all medicines containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis, and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.8 Worsening of Narrow-Angle Glaucoma UTIBRON NEOHALER should be used with caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma. Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of acute narrow-angle glaucoma (e.g., eye pain or discomfort, blurred vision, visual halos or colored images in association with red eyes from conjunctival congestion and corneal edema). Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop. 5.9 Worsening of Urinary Retention UTIBRON NEOHALER should be used with caution in patients with urinary retention. Prescribers and patients should be alert for signs and symptoms of urinary retention (e.g., difficulty passing urine, painful urination), especially in patients with prostatic hyperplasia or bladder-neck obstruction. Instruct patients to consult a physician immediately should any of these signs or symptoms develop. 5.10 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Inhalation of high doses of beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce increases in plasma glucose. In patients with severe COPD, hypokalemia may be potentiated by hypoxia and concomitant treatment [see Drug Interactions (7.2)], which may increase the susceptibility for cardiac arrhythmias. In 2 clinical trials of 12-weeks duration evaluating UTIBRON NEOHALER in subjects with COPD, there was no evidence of a treatment effect on serum glucose or potassium."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating COPD patients (5.2) Do not use for relief of acute symptoms. Concomitant short-acting beta2-agonists can be used as needed for acute relief (5.2) Do not exceed the recommended dose. Excessive use or use in conjunction with other medications containing LABA can result in clinically significant cardiovascular effects and may be fatal (5.3) Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur. Discontinue immediately. (5.4) Life-threatening paradoxical bronchospasm can occur. Discontinue immediately. (5.5) Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular or convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis or sensitivity to sympathomimetic drugs. (5.6, 5.7) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death [See Boxed Warning] Data from a large placebo-controlled study in asthma patients showed that long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonists may increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data are not available to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonists. A 28-week, placebo-controlled US study comparing the safety of another long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist ( salmeterol ) with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol (13/13,176 in patients treated with salmeterol vs. 3/13,179 in patients treated with placebo; RR 4.37, 95% CI 1.25, 15.34). The increased risk of asthma-related death is considered a class effect of the long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonists, including ARCAPTA NEOHALER . No study adequate to determine whether the rate of asthma-related death is increased in patients treated with ARCAPTA NEOHALER has been conducted. The safety and efficacy of ARCAPTA NEOHALER in patients with asthma have not been established. ARCAPTA NEOHALER is not indicated for the treatment of asthma. [ see Contraindications (4 )]. Serious asthma-related events, including death, were reported in clinical studies with ARCAPTA NEOHALER. The sizes of these studies were not adequate to precisely quantify the differences in serious asthma exacerbation rates between treatment groups . [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ARCAPTA NEOHALER should not be initiated in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD, which may be a life-threatening condition. ARCAPTA NEOHALER has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The use of ARCAPTA NEOHALER in this setting is inappropriate. ARCAPTA NEOHALER should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e. as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. ARCAPTA NEOHALER has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta2-agonist. When beginning ARCAPTA NEOHALER, patients who have been taking inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., four times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs and use them only for symptomatic relief of acute respiratory symptoms. When prescribing ARCAPTA NEOHALER, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta2- agonist and instruct the patient on how it should be used. Increasing inhaled beta2-agonist use is a signal of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is indicated. COPD may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer. If ARCAPTA NEOHALER no longer controls the symptoms of bronchoconstriction, or the patient's inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist becomes less effective or the patient needs more inhalation of short-acting beta2-agonist than usual, these may be markers of deterioration of disease. In this setting, a re-evaluation of the patient and the COPD treatment regimen should be undertaken at once. Increasing the daily dosage of ARCAPTA NEOHALER beyond the recommended dose is not appropriate in this situation. 5.3 Excessive Use of ARCAPTA NEOHALER and Use with Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists As with other inhaled beta2-adrenergic drugs, ARCAPTA NEOHALER should not be used more often, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing long-acting beta2-agonists, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.4 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ARCAPTA NEOHALER. If signs suggesting allergic reactions (in particular, difficulties in breathing or swallowing, swelling of tongue, lips and face, urticaria, skin rash) occur, ARCAPTA NEOHALER should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 5.5 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled beta2-agonists, ARCAPTA NEOHALER may produce paradoxical bronchospasm that may be life-threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, ARCAPTA NEOHALER should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 5.6 Cardiovascular Effects ARCAPTA NEOHALER, like other beta2-agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, or symptoms. If such effects occur, ARCAPTA NEOHALER may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression, although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Therefore, ARCAPTA NEOHALER, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. 5.7 Coexisting Conditions ARCAPTA NEOHALER, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis, and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate pre-existing diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.8 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta2-agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Inhalation of high doses of beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce increases in plasma glucose. Clinically notable decreases in serum potassium or changes in blood glucose were infrequent during clinical studies with long-term administration of ARCAPTA NEOHALER with the rates similar to those for placebo controls. ARCAPTA NEOHALER has not been investigated in patients whose diabetes mellitus is not well controlled."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as indacaterol, one of the active ingredients in UTIBRON NEOHALER, increase the risk of asthma-related death. UTIBRON NEOHALER is not indicated for the treatment of asthma [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. The following adverse reactions are described in greater detail in other sections: Paradoxical bronchospasm [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Cardiovascular effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Worsening of narrow-angle glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Worsening of urinary retention [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and higher than placebo) are nasopharyngitis and hypertension. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The UTIBRON NEOHALER safety database included 2654 subjects with COPD in two 12-week lung function trials and one 52-week long-term safety study. A total of 712 subjects received treatment with UTIBRON NEOHALER 27.5 mcg/15.6 mcg BID. The safety data described below are based on the two 12-week trials and the one 52-week trial. 12-Week Trials The incidence of adverse reactions associated with UTIBRON NEOHALER in Table 1 is based on two 12-week, placebo-controlled trials (Trials 1 and 2; N=1,001 and N=1,042 respectively). Of the 2040 subjects, 63% were male and 91% were Caucasian. They had a mean age of 63 years and an average smoking history of 47 pack-years, with 52% identified as current smokers. At screening, the mean post-bronchodilator percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) was 55% (range: 29% to 79%), the mean post-bronchodilator FEV1/forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio was 50% (range: 19% to 71%), and the mean percent reversibility was 23% (range: 0% to 144%). The most common adverse reaction (incidence greater than or equal to 2% and higher than placebo) was nasopharyngitis and hypertension. The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions was 2.95% for the UTIBRON NEOHALER treated patients and 4.13% for placebo-treated patients. Subjects received 1 dose twice-daily of the following: UTIBRON NEOHALER 27.5 mcg/15.6 mcg, indacaterol 27.5 mcg, glycopyrrolate 15.6 mcg, or placebo. Table 1. Adverse reactions with UTIBRON NEOHALER (greater than or equal to 1% incidence and higher than placebo) in COPD patients Adverse Reaction UTIBRON NEOHALER 27.5/15.6 mcg BID (N=508) n (%) Indacaterol 27.5 mcg BID (N=511) n (%) Glycopyrrolate 15.6 mcg BID (N=513) n (%) Placebo (N=508) n (%) Nasopharyngitis 21 (4.1) 13 (2.5) 12 (2.3) 9 (1.8) Hypertension 10 (2.0) 5 (1.0) 3 (0.6) 7 (1.4) Back pain 9 (1.8) 7 (1.4) 2 (0.4) 3 (0.6) Oropharyngeal pain 8 (1.6) 4 (0.8) 8 (1.6) 6 (1.2) Other adverse reactions occurring more frequently with UTIBRON NEOHALER than with placebo, but with an incidence of less than 1% include dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, chest pain, fatigue, peripheral edema, rash/pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, bladder obstruction/urinary retention, atrial fibrillation, palpitations, tachycardia. 52-Week Trial In a long-term safety trial, 614 subjects were treated for up to 52 weeks with indacaterol/glycopyrrolate 27.5 mcg/15.6 mcg twice-daily, indacaterol/glycopyrrolate 27.5/31.2 mcg twice-daily or indacaterol 75 mcg once-daily. The demographic and baseline characteristics of the long-term safety trial were similar to those of the placebo-controlled efficacy trials described above. The adverse reactions reported in the long-term safety trial were consistent with those observed in the placebo-controlled trials of 12 weeks. Additional adverse reactions that occurred with a frequency greater than or equal to 2% in the group receiving indacaterol/glycopyrrolate 27.5 mcg/15.6 mcg twice-daily that exceeded the frequency of indacaterol 75 mcg once-daily in this trial were: upper and lower respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, diarrhea, headache, gastroesophageal reflux disease, hyperglycemia, rhinitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reaction of angioedema has been identified during worldwide post-approval use of indacaterol/glycopyrrolate at higher than the recommended dose. Because this reaction is reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS L ong - acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonists , such as A RCAPTA NEOHALER , increase the risk of asthma-related death . ARCAPTA NEOHALER is not indicated for the treatment of asthma [See B oxed Warning and W arning and Precautions (5.1) ]. Most common adverse reactions (>2% and more common than placebo) are cough, oropharyngeal pain, nasopharyngitis, headache and nausea. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The ARCAPTA NEOHALER safety database reflects exposure of 2516 patients to ARCAPTA NEOHALER at doses of 75 mcg or greater for at least 12 weeks in six confirmatory randomized, double-blind, placebo and active-controlled clinical trials (see Section 14). In these trials, 449 patients were exposed to the recommended dose of 75 mcg for up to 3 months, and 144, 583 and 425 COPD patients were exposed to a dose of 150, 300 or 600 mcg for one year, respectively. Overall, patients had a mean pre-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) percent predicted of 54%. The mean age of patients was 64 years, with 47% of patients aged 65 years or older, and the majority (88%) was Caucasian. In these six clinical trials, 48% of patients treated with any dose of ARCAPTA NEOHALER reported an adverse reaction compared with 43% of patients treated with placebo. The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reaction was 5% for ARCAPTA NEOHALER-treated patients and 5% for placebo-treated patients. The most common adverse reactions that lead to discontinuation of ARCAPTA NEOHALER were COPD and dyspnea. The most common serious adverse reactions were COPD exacerbation, pneumonia, angina pectoris, and atrial fibrillation, which occurred at similar rates across treatment groups. Table 1 displays adverse drug reactions reported by at least 2% of patients (and higher than placebo) during a 3 month exposure at the recommended 75 mcg once daily dose. Adverse drug reactions are listed according to MedDRA (version 13.0) system organ class and sorted in descending order of frequency. Table 1: Number and frequency of adverse drug reactions greater than 2% (and higher than placebo) in COPD patients exposed to ARCAPTA NEOHALER 75 mcg for up to 3 months in multiple dose, controlled trials Indacaterol 75 mcg once daily Placebo n=449 n= 445 n (%) n (%) Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders - Cough 29 (6.5) 20 (4.5) - Oropharyngeal pain 10 (2.2) 3 (0.7) Infections and infestations - Nasopharyngitis 24 (5.3) 12 (2.7) Nervous system disorders - Headache 23 (5.1) 11 (2.5) Gastrointestinal disorders - Nausea 11 (2.4) 4 (0.9) In these trials the overall frequency of all cardiovascular adverse reactions was 2.5% for ARCAPTA NEOHALER 75 mcg and 1.6% for placebo during a 3 month exposure. There were no frequently occurring specific cardiovascular adverse reactions for ARCAPTA NEOHALER 75 mcg (frequency at least 1% and greater than placebo). Additional adverse drug reactions reported in greater than 2% (and higher than on placebo) in patients dosed with 150, 300 or 600 mcg for up to 12 months were as follows: Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: muscle spasm, musculoskeletal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: edema peripheral Metabolism and nutrition disorder: diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia Infections and infestations: sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection C ough experienced p ost - inhalation In the clinical trials, health care providers observed during clinic visits that an average of 24% of patients experienced a cough on at least 20% of visits following inhalation of the recommended 75 mcg dose of ARCAPTA NEOHALER compared to 7% of patients receiving placebo. The cough usually occurred within 15 seconds following inhalation and lasted for no more than 15 seconds. Cough following inhalation in clinical trials was not associated with bronchospasm, exacerbations, deteriorations of disease or loss of efficacy. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma In a 6-month randomized, active controlled asthma safety trial, 805 adult patients with moderate to severe persistent asthma were treated with ARCAPTA NEOHALER 300 mcg (n=268), ARCAPTA NEOHALER 600 mcg (n=268), and salmeterol (n=269), all concomitant with inhaled corticosteroids, which were not co-randomized. Of these patients, there were 2 respiratory-related deaths in the ARCAPTA NEOHALER 300 mcg dose group. There were no deaths in the ARCAPTA NEOHALER 600 mcg dose group or in the salmeterol active control group. Serious adverse reactions related to asthma exacerbation were reported for 2 patients in the indacaterol 300 mcg group, 3 patients in the indacaterol 600 mcg group, and no patients in the salmeterol active control group. In addition, a two-week dose-ranging trial was conducted in 511 adult patients with mild persistent asthma taking inhaled corticosteroids. No deaths, intubations, or serious adverse reactions related to asthma exacerbation were reported in this trial. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during worldwide post-approval use of indacaterol, the active ingredient in ARCAPTA NEOHALER. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These adverse reactions are: hypersensitivity reactions, paradoxical bronchospasm, tachycardia/heart rate increase/palpitations, pruritus/rash and dizziness."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other adrenergic drugs may potentiate effect: Use with caution. (5.3, 7.1) Xanthine derivatives, steroids, diuretics or non-potassium sparing diuretics may potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes. Use with caution. (7.2, 7.3) MAO inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, and drugs that prolong QTc interval may potentiate effect on cardiovascular system. Use with extreme caution. (7.4) Beta-blockers may decrease effectiveness: Use with caution and only when medically necessary. (7.5) 7.1 Adrenergic Drugs If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route, they should be used with caution because the sympathetic effects of ARCAPTA NEOHALER may be potentiated [see W arnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8)]. 7.2 Xanthine Derivatives, Steroids, or Diuretics Concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives, steroids, or diuretics may potentiate any hypokalemic effect of ARCAPTA NEOHALER [see W arnings and Precautions (5.8)]. 7.3 Non-Potassium Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non-potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the co-administration of ARCAPTA NEOHALER with non-potassium-sparing diuretics. 7.4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors, Tricyclic Antidepressants, QTc Prolonging Drugs Indacaterol, as with other beta2-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, or other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval because the action of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval may have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. 7.5 Beta-Blockers Beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists (beta-blockers) and ARCAPTA NEOHALER may interfere with the effect of each other when administered concurrently. Beta-blockers not only block the therapeutic effects of beta-agonists, but may produce severe bronchospasm in COPD patients. Therefore, patients with COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, e.g. as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-blockers in patients with COPD. In this setting, cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.6 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 and P-gp Efflux Transporter Drug interaction studies were carried out using potent and specific inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp (i.e., ketoconazole, erythromycin, verapamil and ritonavir). The data suggest that systemic clearance is influenced by modulation of both P-gp and CYP3A4 activities and that the 1.9-fold AUC0-24 increase caused by the strong dual inhibitor ketoconazole reflects the impact of maximal combined inhibition. ARCAPTA NEOHALER was evaluated in clinical trials for up to one year at doses up to 600 mcg. No dose adjustment is warranted at the 75 mcg dose. [See Drug-drug Interaction (12.3)]"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other adrenergic drugs may potentiate effect: Use with caution (5.3, 7.1) Xanthine derivatives, steroids, diuretics or non-potassium-sparing diuretics may potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes. Use with caution. (7.2, 7.3) Monoamine Oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, and drugs that prolong QTc interval may potentiate effect on cardiovascular system. Use with extreme caution. (7.4) Beta-blockers may decrease effectiveness: Use with caution and only when medically necessary. (7.5) Anticholinergics: May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Avoid administration of UTIBRON NEOHALER with other anticholinergic-containing drugs. (7.6) 7.1 Adrenergic Drugs If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route, they should be used with caution because the sympathetic effects of indacaterol, a component of UTIBRON NEOHALER, may be potentiated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.6, 5.7, 5.10)]. 7.2 Xanthine Derivatives, Steroids, or Diuretics Concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives, steroids, or diuretics may potentiate any hypokalemic effect of beta2-adrenergic agonists such as indacaterol, a component of UTIBRON NEOHALER [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 7.3 Non-Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The electrocardiographic (ECG) changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non-potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, such as indacaterol, a component of UTIBRON NEOHALER, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of UTIBRON NEOHALER with non-potassium-sparing diuretics. 7.4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors, Tricyclic Antidepressants, QTc-Prolonging Drugs Indacaterol, one of the components of UTIBRON NEOHALER, as with other beta2-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, or other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval because the action of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval may have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. 7.5 Beta-Blockers Beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists (beta-blockers) and UTIBRON NEOHALER may interfere with the effect of each other when administered concurrently. Beta-blockers not only block the therapeutic effects of beta-agonists, but may produce severe bronchospasm in COPD patients. Therefore, patients with COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, e.g., as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-blockers in patients with COPD. In this setting, cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.6 Anticholinergics There is potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medicines. Therefore, avoid coadministration of UTIBRON NEOHALER with other anticholinergic-containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8, 5.9), Adverse Reactions (6)]. 7.7 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 and P-gp Efflux Transporter Drug interaction studies with indacaterol, a component of UTIBRON NEOHALER, were carried out using potent and specific inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp (i.e., ketoconazole, erythromycin, verapamil, and ritonavir). The data suggest that systemic clearance of indacaterol is influenced by modulation of both P-gp and CYP3A4 activities and that the 2-fold area under the curve (AUC) increase caused by the strong dual inhibitor ketoconazole reflects the impact of maximal combined inhibition. Indacaterol was evaluated in clinical trials for up to 1 year at doses up to 600 mcg. Inhibition of the key contributors of indacaterol clearance, CYP3A4 and P-gp, has no impact on safety of therapeutic doses of indacaterol. Therefore, no dose adjustment is warranted at the recommended 27.5/15.6 mcg twice-daily dose for UTIBRON NEOHALER when administered concomitantly with inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
