
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions following the use of iopamidol are usually mild to moderate, self-limited, and transient. In angiocardiography (597 patients), the adverse reactions with an estimated incidence of one percent or higher are: hot flashes 3.4%; angina pectoris 3.0%; flushing 1.8%; bradycardia 1.3%; hypotension 1.0%; hives 1.0%. In a clinical trial with 76 pediatric patients undergoing angiocardiography, 2 adverse reactions (2.6%) both remotely attributed to the contrast media were reported. Both patients were less than 2 years of age, both had cyanotic heart disease with underlying right ventricular abnormalities and abnormal pulmonary circulation. In one patient pre-existing cyanosis was transiently intensified following contrast media administration. In the second patient pre-existing decreased peripheral perfusion was intensified for 24 hours following the examination. (See "PRECAUTIONS" Section for information on high risk nature of these patients.) Intravascular injection of contrast media is frequently associated with the sensation of warmth and pain especially in peripheral arteriography and venography; pain and warmth are less frequent and less severe with ISOVUE (Iopamidol Injection) than with diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate sodium injection. The following table of incidence of reactions is based on clinical studies with ISOVUE in about 2246 patients. Adverse Reactions Estimated Overall Incidence System > 1% <= 1% Cardiovascular none tachycardia hypotension hypertension myocardial ischemia circulatory collapse S-T segment depression bigeminy extrasystoles ventricular fibrillation angina pectoris bradycardia transient ischemic attack thrombophlebitis Nervous pain (2.8%) burning sensation (1.4%) vasovagal reaction tingling in arms grimace faintness Digestive nausea (1.2%) vomiting anorexia Respiratory none throat constriction dyspnea pulmonary edema Skin and Appendages none rash urticaria pruritus flushing Body as a Whole hot flashes (1.5%) headache fever chills excessive sweating back spasm Special Senses warmth (1.1%) taste alterations nasal congestion visual disturbances Urogenital none urinary retention Regardless of the contrast agent employed, the overall estimated incidence of serious adverse reactions is higher with coronary arteriography than with other procedures. Cardiac decompensation, serious arrhythmias, or myocardial ischemia or infarction have been reported with Isovue and may occur during coronary arteriography and left ventriculography. Following coronary and ventricular injections, certain electrocardiographic changes (increased QTc, increased R-R, T-wave amplitude) and certain hemodynamic changes (decreased systolic pressure) occurred less frequently with ISOVUE (Iopamidol Injection) than with diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate sodium injection; increased LVEDP occurred less frequently after ventricular iopamidol injections. In aortography, the risks of procedures also include injury to the aorta and neighboring organs, pleural puncture, renal damage including infarction and acute tabular necrosis with oliguria and anuria, accidental selective filling of the right renal artery during the translumbar procedure in the presence of preexisting renal disease, retroperitoneal hemorrhage from the translumbar approach, and spinal cord injury and pathology associated with the syndrome of transverse myelitis. The following adverse reactions have been reported for Iopamidol: Cardiovascular: arrhythmia, arterial spasms, flushing, vasodilation, chest pain, cardiopulmonary arrest; Nervous System: confusion, paresthesia, dizziness, temporary cortical blindness, temporary amnesia, convulsions, paralysis, coma; Respiratory: increased cough, sneezing, asthma, apnea, laryngeal edema, chest tightness, rhinitis; Skin and Appendages: injection site pain usually due to extravasation and/or erythematous swelling, pallor, periorbital edema, facial edema; Urogenital: pain, hematuria; Special Senses: watery itchy eyes, lacrimation, conjunctivitis; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm, involuntary leg movement; Body as a whole: tremors, malaise, anaphylactoid reaction (characterized by cardiovascular, respiratory and cutaneous symptoms), pain; Digestive: severe retching and choking, abdominal cramps. Some of these may occur as a consequence of the procedure. Other reactions may also occur with the use of any contrast agent as a consequence of the procedural hazard; these include hemorrhage or pseudoaneurysms at the puncture site, brachial plexus palsy following axillary artery injections, chest pain, myocardial infarction, and transient changes in hepatorenal chemistry tests. Arterial thrombosis, displacement of arterial plaques, venous thrombosis, dissection of the coronary vessels and transient sinus arrest are rare complications. General Adverse Reactions To Contrast Media Reactions known to occur with parenteral administration of iodinated ionic contrast agents (see the listing below) are possible with any nonionic agent. Approximately 95 percent of adverse reactions accompanying the use of other water-soluble intravascularly administered contrast agents are mild to moderate in degree. However, life-threatening reactions and fatalities, mostly of cardiovascular origin, have occurred. Reported incidences of death from the administration of other iodinated contrast media range from 6.6 per 1 million (0.00066 percent) to 1 in 10,000 patients (0.01 percent). Most deaths occur during injection or 5 to 10 minutes later, the main feature being cardiac arrest with cardiovascular disease as the main aggravating factor. Isolated reports of hypotensive collapse and shock are found in the literature. The incidence of shock is estimated to be 1 out of 20,000 (0.005 percent) patients. Adverse reactions to injectable contrast media fall into two categories: chemotoxic reactions and idiosyncratic reactions. Chemotoxic reactions result from the physicochemical properties of the contrast medium, the dose, and the speed of injection. All hemodynamic disturbances and injuries to organs or vessels perfused by the contrast medium are included in this category. Experience with iopamidol suggests there is much less discomfort (e.g. pain and/or warmth) with peripheral arteriography. Fewer changes are noted in ventricular function after ventriculography and coronary arteriography. Idiosyncratic reactions include all other reactions. They occur more frequently in patients 20 to 40 years old. Idiosyncratic reactions may or may not be dependent on the amount of drug injected, the speed of injection, the mode of injection, and the radiographic procedure. Idiosyncratic reactions are subdivided into minor, intermediate, and severe. The minor reactions are self-limited and of short duration; the severe reactions are life-threatening and treatment is urgent and mandatory. The reported incidence of adverse reactions to contrast media in patients with a history of allergy is twice that for the general population. Patients with a history of previous reactions to a contrast medium are three times more susceptible than other patients. However, sensitivity to contrast media does not appear to increase with repeated examinations. Most adverse reactions to intravascular contrast agents appear within one to three minutes after the start of injection, but delayed reactions may occur. Delayed reactions, usually involving the skin, may uncommonly occur within 2-3 days (range 1-7 days) after the administration of contrast (see PRECAUTIONS-General ). Delayed allergic reactions are more frequent in patients treated with immunostimulants, such as interleukin-2. In addition to the adverse drug reactions reported for iopamidol, the following additional adverse reactions have been reported with the use of other intravascular contrast agents and are possible with the use of any water-soluble iodinated contrast agent: Cardiovascular: cerebral hematomas, petechiae; Hematologic: neutropenia; Skin and Appendages: skin necrosis; Urogenital: osmotic nephrosis of proximal tubular cells, renal failure; Special Senses: conjunctival chemosis with infection. Endocrine: Thyroid function tests indicative of hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression have been uncommonly reported following iodinated contrast media administration to adult and pediatric patients, including infants. Some patients were treated for hypothyroidism."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions following the use of iopamidol are usually mild to moderate, self-limited, and transient. In angiocardiography (597 patients), the adverse reactions with an estimated incidence of one percent or higher are: hot flashes 3.4%; angina pectoris 3.0%; flushing 1.8%; bradycardia 1.3%; hypotension 1.0%; hives 1.0%. In a clinical trial with 76 pediatric patients undergoing angiocardiography, 2 adverse reactions (2.6%) both remotely attributed to the contrast media were reported. Both patients were less than 2 years of age, both had cyanotic heart disease with underlying right ventricular abnormalities and abnormal pulmonary circulation. In one patient preexisting cyanosis was transiently intensified following contrast media administration. In the second patient preexisting decreased peripheral perfusion was intensified for 24 hours following the examination. (See "PRECAUTIONS" Section for information on high risk nature of these patients.) Intravascular injection of contrast media is frequently associated with the sensation of warmth and pain especially in peripheral arteriography and venography; pain and warmth are less frequent and less severe with ISOVUE (lopamidol Injection) than with diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate sodium injection. The following table of incidence of reactions is based on clinical studies with ISOVUE in about 2246 patients. Adverse Reactions Estimated Overall Incidence System > 1% <= 1% Cardiovascular none tachycardia hypotension hypertension myocardial ischemia circulatory collapse S-T segment depression bigeminy extrasystoles ventricular fibrillation angina pectoris bradycardia transient ischemic attack thrombophlebitis Nervous pain (2.8%) burning sensation (1.4%) vasovagal reaction tingling in arms grimace faintness Digestive nausea (1.2%) vomiting anorexia Respiratory none throat constriction dyspnea pulmonary edema Skin and Appendages none rash urticaria pruritus flushing Body as a Whole hot flashes (1.5%) headache fever chills excessive sweating back spasm Special Senses warmth (1.1%) taste alterations nasal congestion visual disturbances Urogenital none urinary retention Regardless of the contrast agent employed, the overall estimated incidence of serious adverse reactions is higher with coronary arteriography than with other procedures. Cardiac decompensation, serious arrhythmias, or myocardial ischemia or infarction have been reported with Isovue and may occur during coronary arteriography and left ventriculography. Following coronary and ventricular injections, certain electrocardiographic changes (increased QTc, increased R-R, T-wave amplitude) and certain hemodynamic changes (decreased systolic pressure) occurred less frequently with ISOVUE (lopamidol Injection) than with diatrizoate meglumine and diatrizoate sodium injection; increased LVEDP occurred less frequently after ventricular iopamidol injections. In aortography, the risks of procedures also include injury to the aorta and neighboring organs, pleural puncture, renal damage including infarction and acute tabular necrosis with oliguria and anuria, accidental selective filling of the right renal artery during the translumbar procedure in the presence of preexisting renal disease, retroperitoneal hemorrhage from the translumbar approach, and spinal cord injury and pathology associated with the syndrome of transverse myelitis. The following adverse reactions have been reported for lopamidol: Cardiovascular: arrhythmia, arterial spasms, flushing, vasodilation, chest pain, cardiopulmonary arrest; Nervous: confusion, paresthesia, dizziness, temporary cortical blindness, temporary amnesia, convulsions, paralysis, coma; Respiratory: increased cough, sneezing, asthma, apnea, laryngeal edema, chest tightness, rhinitis; Skin and Appendages: injection site pain usually due to extravasation and/or erythematous swelling, pallor, periorbital edema, facial edema; Urogenital: pain, hematuria; Special Senses: watery itchy eyes, lacrimation, conjunctivitis; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm, involuntary leg movement; Body as a whole: tremors, malaise, anaphylactoid reaction (characterized by cardiovascular, respiratory and cutaneous symptoms), pain; Digestive: severe retching and choking, abdominal cramps. Some of these may occur as a consequence of the procedure. Other reactions may also occur with the use of any contrast agent as a consequence of the procedural hazard; these include hemorrhage or pseudoaneurysms at the puncture site, brachial plexus palsy following axillary artery injections, chest pain, myocardial infarction, and transient changes in hepatorenal chemistry tests. Arterial thrombosis, displacement of arterial plaques, venous thrombosis, dissection of the coronary vessels and transient sinus arrest are rare complications. General Adverse Reactions To Contrast Media Reactions known to occur with parenteral administration of iodinated ionic contrast agents (see the listing below) are possible with any nonionic agent. Approximately 95 percent of adverse reactions accompanying the use of other water-soluble intravascularly administered contrast agents are mild to moderate in degree. However, life-threatening reactions and fatalities, mostly of cardiovascular origin, have occurred. Reported incidences of death from the administration of other iodinated contrast media range from 6.6 per 1 million (0.00066 percent) to 1 in 10,000 patients (0.01 percent). Most deaths occur during injection or 5 to 10 minutes later, the main feature being cardiac arrest with cardiovascular disease as the main aggravating factor. Isolated reports of hypotensive collapse and shock are found in the literature. The incidence of shock is estimated to be 1 out of 20,000 (0.005 percent) patients. Adverse reactions to injectable contrast media fall into two categories: chemotoxic reactions and idiosyncratic reactions. Chemotoxic reactions result from the physicochemical properties of the contrast medium, the dose, and the speed of injection. All hemodynamic disturbances and injuries to organs or vessels perfused by the contrast medium are included in this category. Experience with iopamidol suggests there is much less discomfort (e.g. pain and/or warmth) with peripheral arteriography. Fewer changes are noted in ventricular function after ventriculography and coronary arteriography. Idiosyncratic reactions include all other reactions. They occur more frequently in patients 20 to 40 years old. Idiosyncratic reactions may or may not be dependent on the amount of drug injected, the speed of injection, the mode of injection, and the radiographic procedure. Idiosyncratic reactions are subdivided into minor, intermediate, and severe. The minor reactions are self-limited and of short duration; the severe reactions are life-threatening and treatment is urgent and mandatory. The reported incidence of adverse reactions to contrast media in patients with a history of allergy is twice that for the general population. Patients with a history of previous reactions to a contrast medium are three times more susceptible than other patients. However, sensitivity to contrast media does not appear to increase with repeated examinations. Most adverse reactions to intravascular contrast agents appear within one to three minutes after the start of injection, but delayed reactions may occur. Delayed reactions, usually involving the skin, may uncommonly occur within 2-3 days (range 1-7 days) after the administration of contrast (see PRECAUTIONS-General ). Delayed allergic reactions are more frequent in patients treated with immunostimulants, such as interleukin-2. In addition to the adverse drug reactions reported for iopamidol, the following additional adverse reactions have been reported with the use of other intravascular contrast agents and are possible with the use of any water-soluble iodinated contrast agent: Cardiovascular: cerebral hematomas, petechiae; Hematologic: neutropenia; Skin and Appendages: skin necrosis; Urogenital: osmotic nephrosis of proximal tubular cells, renal failure; Special Senses: conjunctival chemosis with infection. Endocrine: Thyroid function tests indicative of hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression have been uncommonly reported following iodinated contrast media administration to adult and pediatric patients, including infants. Some patients were treated for hypothyroidism."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions following the use of iopamidol are usually mild to moderate, self-limited, and transient. The following table of incidence of reactions is based on clinical studies with ISOVUE in about 2246 patients. Adverse Reactions Estimated Overall Incidence System > 1% <= 1% Cardiovascular none tachycardia hypotension hypertension myocardial ischemia circulatory collapse S-T segment depression bigeminy extrasystoles ventricular fibrillation angina pectoris bradycardia transient ischemic attack thrombophlebitis Nervous pain (2.8%) burning sensation (1.4%) vasovagal reaction tingling in arms grimace faintness Digestive nausea (1.2%) vomiting anorexia Respiratory none throat constriction dyspnea pulmonary edema Skin and Appendages none rash urticaria pruritus flushing Body as a Whole hot flashes (1.5%) headache fever chills excessive sweating back spasm Special Senses warmth (1.1%) taste alterations nasal congestion visual disturbances Urogenital none urinary retention The following adverse reactions have been reported for Iopamidol: Cardiovascular: arrhythmia, arterial spasms, flushing, vasodilation, chest pain, cardiopulmonary arrest; Nervous System: confusion, paresthesia, dizziness, temporary cortical blindness, temporary amnesia, convulsions, paralysis, coma; Respiratory: increased cough, sneezing, asthma, apnea, laryngeal edema, chest tightness, rhinitis; Skin and Appendages: injection site pain usually due to extravasation and/or erythematous swelling, pallor, periorbital edema, facial edema; Urogenital: pain, hematuria; Special Senses: watery itchy eyes, lacrimation, conjunctivitis; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm, involuntary leg movement; Body as a whole: tremors, malaise, anaphylactoid reaction (characterized by cardiovascular, respiratory and cutaneous symptoms), pain; Digestive: severe retching and choking, abdominal cramps. Some of these may occur as a consequence of the procedure. Other reactions may also occur with the use of any contrast agent as a consequence of the procedural hazard; these include hemorrhage or pseudoaneurysms at the puncture site, brachial plexus palsy following axillary artery injections, chest pain, myocardial infarction, and transient changes in hepatorenal chemistry tests. Arterial thrombosis, displacement of arterial plaques, venous thrombosis, dissection of the coronary vessels and transient sinus arrest are rare complications. General Adverse Reactions To Contrast Media Reactions known to occur with parenteral administration of iodinated ionic contrast agents (see the listing below) are possible with any nonionic agent. Approximately 95 percent of adverse reactions accompanying the use of other water-soluble intravascularly administered contrast agents are mild to moderate in degree. However, life-threatening reactions and fatalities, mostly of cardiovascular origin, have occurred. Reported incidences of death from the administration of other iodinated contrast media range from 6.6 per 1 million (0.00066 percent) to 1 in 10,000 patients (0.01 percent). Most deaths occur during injection or 5 to 10 minutes later, the main feature being cardiac arrest with cardiovascular disease as the main aggravating factor. Isolated reports of hypotensive collapse and shock are found in the literature. The incidence of shock is estimated to be 1 out of 20,000 (0.005 percent) patients. Adverse reactions to injectable contrast media fall into two categories: chemotoxic reactions and idiosyncratic reactions. Chemotoxic reactions result from the physicochemical properties of the contrast medium, the dose, and the speed of injection. All hemodynamic disturbances and injuries to organs or vessels perfused by the contrast medium are included in this category. Idiosyncratic reactions include all other reactions. They occur more frequently in patients 20 to 40 years old. Idiosyncratic reactions may or may not be dependent on the amount of drug injected, the speed of injection, the mode of injection, and the radiographic procedure. Idiosyncratic reactions are subdivided into minor, intermediate, and severe. The minor reactions are self-limited and of short duration; the severe reactions are life-threatening and treatment is urgent and mandatory. The reported incidence of adverse reactions to contrast media in patients with a history of allergy is twice that for the general population. Patients with a history of previous reactions to a contrast medium are three times more susceptible than other patients. However, sensitivity to contrast media does not appear to increase with repeated examinations. Most adverse reactions to intravascular contrast agents appear within one to three minutes after the start of injection, but delayed reactions may occur. Delayed reactions, usually involving the skin, may uncommonly occur within 2-3 days (range 1-7 days) after the administration of contrast (see PRECAUTIONS-General ). Delayed allergic reactions are more frequent in patients treated with immunostimulants, such as interleukin-2. In addition to the adverse drug reactions reported for iopamidol, the following additional adverse reactions have been reported with the use of other intravascular contrast agents and are possible with the use of any water-soluble iodinated contrast agent: Cardiovascular: cerebral hematomas, petechiae; Hematologic: neutropenia; Skin and Appendages: skin necrosis; Urogenital: osmotic nephrosis of proximal tubular cells, renal failure; Special Senses: conjunctival chemosis with infection. Endocrine: Thyroid function tests indicative of hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression have been uncommonly reported following iodinated contrast media administration to adult and pediatric patients, including infants. Some patients were treated for hypothyroidism."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions following intrathecal administration of iopamidol are headache, nausea, vomiting, and musculoskeletal pain. These reactions usually occur 1 to 10 hours after injection, almost all occurring within 24 hours. They are usually mild to moderate in degree, lasting for a few hours and usually disappearing within 24 hours. Rarely, headaches may be severe or persist for days. Headache is often accompanied by nausea and vomiting, and tends to be more frequent and persistent in patients not optimally hydrated. Backache, neck stiffness, numbness and paresthesias, leg or sciatic-type pain occurred less frequently, often in the form of a transient exacerbation of preexisting symptomatology. Transient alterations in vital signs may occur and their significance must be assessed on an individual basis. The following table of incidence of reactions is based on clinical studies with ISOVUE-M (lopamidol Injection) in about 686 patients. Adverse Reactions Estimated Overall Incidence System > 1% <= 1% Body as a Whole headache (16.4%) pyrexia muscle weakness hot flashes malaise fatigue weakness Digestive nausea (7.3%) vomiting (3.6%) diarrhea heartburn Musculoskeletal back pain (2.2%) leg pain (1.4%) neck pain (1.1%) leg cramps sciatica cervicobrachial irritation meningeal irritation radicular irritation lumbosacral other musculoskeletal pain involuntary movement burning sensation Cardiovascular hypotension (1.1%) tachycardia hypertension chest pain Nervous none emotional stress dizziness paresthesia confusion hallucinations lightheadedness syncope numbness cold extremities ataxia irritability Urogenital none urinary retention Respiratory none dyspnea Skin and Appendages none rash Miscellaneous none injection site pain Other adverse effects reported in clinical literature for iopamidol include facial neuralgia, tinnitus, and sweating. Major motor seizures have been reported in the clinical literature and since market introduction in the United States. Early onset of seizures (less than two hours) is indicative of early substantial intracranial entry. Transitory EEG changes occur and usually take the form of slow wave activity. While not observed in controlled clinical studies with ISOVUE-M (lopamidol Injection), the following adverse reactions may occur because they have been reported with ISOVUE-M and other nonionic water soluble contrast agents: cardiovascular (arrhythmias); pulmonary (apnea); bacterial meningitis, and aseptic meningitis syndrome; allergy or idiosyncrasy (chills, pruritus, nasal congestion, Guillain-Barre syndrome); CNS irritation (psycho-organic syndrome: mild and transitory perceptual aberrations such as depersonalization, anxiety, depression, hyperesthesia, disturbances in speech, sight, or hearing, and disorientation; in addition, hyperreflexia or areflexia, hypertonia or flaccidity, restlessness, tremor, echoacousia, echolalia, asterixis or dysphasia have occurred). Profound mental disturbances have rarely been reported (various forms and degrees of aphasia, mental confusion or disorientation); the onset is usually at 8 to 10 hours and lasts for about 24 hours without aftereffects. However, occasionally they have been manifest as apprehension, agitation or progressive withdrawal to the point of stupor or coma. In a few cases, these have been accompanied by transitory hearing loss or other auditory symptoms and visual disturbances (believed subjective or delusional). Persistent cortical loss of vision in association with convulsions, and ventricular block have been reported. Rarely, persistent though transitory weakness in the leg or ocular muscles has been reported. Peripheral neuropathies have been rare and transitory. They include sensory and/or motor or nerve root disturbances, myelitis, persistent leg muscle pain or weakness, or sixth nerve palsy, or cauda equina syndrome. Muscle cramps, fasciculation or myoclonia, spinal convulsion, paralysis, or spasticity are unusual. General Adverse Reactions To Contrast Media Reactions known to occur with parenteral administration of iodinated ionic contrast agents (see the listing below) are possible with any nonionic agent. Approximately 95 percent of adverse reactions accompanying the use of other water-soluble intravascularly administered contrast agents are mild to moderate in degree. However, life-threatening reactions and fatalities, mostly of cardiovascular origin, have occurred. Reported incidences of death from the administration of other iodinated contrast media range from 6.6 per 1 million (0.00066 percent) to 1 in 10,000 patients (0.01 percent). Most deaths occur during injection or 5 to 10 minutes later, the main feature being cardiac arrest with cardiovascular disease as the main aggravating factor. Isolated reports of hypotensive collapse and shock are found in the literature. The incidence of shock is estimated to be 1 out of 20,000 (0.005 percent) patients. Adverse reactions to injectable contrast media fall into two categories: chemotoxic reactions and idiosyncratic reactions. Chemotoxic reactions result from the physicochemical properties of the contrast medium, the dose, and the speed of injection. All hemodynamic disturbances and injuries to organs or vessels perfused by the contrast medium are included in this category. During intrathecal use, there is a lower incidence of electroencephalographic changes as well as neurotoxicity by virtue of the intrinsic properties of the iopamidol molecule. Idiosyncratic reactions include all other reactions. They occur more frequently in patients 20 to 40 years old. Idiosyncratic reactions may or may not be dependent on the amount of drug injected, the speed of injection, the mode of injection, and the radiographic procedure. Idiosyncratic reactions are subdivided into minor, intermediate, and severe. The minor reactions are self-limited and of short duration; the severe reactions are life-threatening and treatment is urgent and mandatory. The reported incidence of adverse reactions to contrast media in patients with a history of allergy is twice that for the general population. Patients with a history of previous reactions to a contrast medium are three times more susceptible than other patients. However, sensitivity to contrast media does not appear to increase with repeated examinations. Most adverse reactions to intravascular contrast agents appear within one to three minutes after the start of injection, but delayed reactions may occur (see PRECAUTIONS-General ). Because measurable plasma levels are attained following the intrathecal administration of iopamidol, adverse reactions reported with the use of intravascular contrast agents are theoretically possible. These include: Cardiovascular: vasodilation (feeling of warmth), cerebral hematomas, hemodynamic disturbances, sinus bradycardia, transient electrocardiographic abnormalities, ventricular fibrillation, petechiae. Digestive: nausea, vomiting, severe unilateral or bilateral swelling of the parotid and submaxillary glands. Nervous: paresthesia, dizziness, convulsions, paralysis, coma. Respiratory: increased cough, asthma, dyspnea, laryngeal edema, pulmonary edema, bronchospasm, rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: injection site pain usually due to extravasation and/or erythematous swelling, skin necrosis, urticaria. Urogenital: osmotic nephrosis of proximal tubular cells, renal failure, pain. Special Senses: perversion of taste; bilateral ocular irritation; lacrimation; itching; conjunctival chemosis, infection, and conjunctivitis. Endocrine: Thyroid function tests indicative of hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression have been uncommonly reported following iodinated contrast media administration to adult and pediatric patients, including infants. Some patients were treated for hypothyroidism. The following reactions may also occur: neutropenia, thrombophlebitis, flushing, pallor, weakness, severe retching and choking, wheezing, cramps, tremors, and sneezing."$$
"Adverse Reaction The most frequently reported adverse reactions following intrathecal administration of iopamidol are headache, nausea, vomiting, and musculoskeletal pain. These reactions usually occur 1 to 10 hours after injection, almost all occurring within 24 hours. They are usually mild to moderate in degree, lasting for a few hours and usually disappearing within 24 hours. Rarely, headaches may be severe or persist for days. Headache is often accompanied by nausea and vomiting, and tends to be more frequent and persistent in patients not optimally hydrated. Backache, neck stiffness, numbness and paresthesias, leg or sciatic-type pain occurred less frequently, often in the form of a transient exacerbation of preexisting symptomatology. Transient alterations in vital signs may occur and their significance must be assessed on an individual basis. The following table of incidence of reactions is based on clinical studies with ISOVUE-M (lopamidol Injection) in about 686 patients. Adverse Reactions Estimated Overall Incidence System Greater than 1% less than or Equal to 1% Body as a Whole headache (16.4%) pyrexia muscle weakness hot flashes malaise fatigue weakness Digestive nausea (7.3%) diarrhea vomiting (3.6%) heartburn Musculoskeletal back pain (2.2%) leg cramps leg pain (1.4%) sciatica neck pain (1.1%) cervicobrachial irritation meningeal irritation radicular irritation lumbosacral other musculoskeletal pain involuntary movement burning sensation Cardiovascular hypotension (1.1%) tachycardia hypertension chest pain Nervous none emotional stress dizziness paresthesia confusion hallucinations lightheadedness syncope numbness cold extremities ataxia irritability Urogenital none urinary retention Respiratory none dyspnea Skin and Appendages none rash Miscellaneous none injection site pain Other adverse effects reported in clinical literature for iopamidol include facial neuralgia, tinnitus, and sweating. Major motor seizures have been reported in the clinical literature and since market introduction in th eUnited States. Early onset of seizures (less than two hours) is indicative of early substantial intrcranial entry. Transitory EEG changes occur and usually take the form of slow wave activity. While not observed in controlled clinical studies with ISOVUE-M (Iopamidol Injection), the following adverse reactions may occur because they have been reported with ISOVUE-M and other nonionic water soluble contrast agents: cardiovascular (arrhythmias); pulmonary (apnea); bacterial meningitis, and aseptic meningitis syndrome; allergy or idiosyncrasy (chills, pruritus, nasal congestion, Guillain_Barre syndrome); CNS irritation (psycho-organic syndrome : mild and transitory perceptual aberrations such as depersonalization, anxiety, deppression, hyperreflexia or areflexia, hypertonia or flaccidity, restlessness, tremor, echoacousia,echolalia, asterixis or dysphasia have occurred). Profound mental disturbances have rarely been reported (various forms and degrees of aphasia, mental confusion or disorientation); the onset is usually at 8 to 10 hours and lasts for about 24 hours without aftereffects. However, occasionally they have been manifest as apprehension, agitation or progressive withdrawal to the point of stupor or coma. In a few cases, these have been accompanied by transitory hearing loss or other auditory symptoms and visual disturbances (believed subjective or delusional). Persistent cortical loss of vision in association with convulsions, and ventricular block have been reported. Rarely, persistent though transitory weakness in the leg or ocular muscles has been reported. Peripheral neuropathies have been rare and transitory. They include sensory and/or motor or nerve root disturbances, myelitis, persistent leg muscle pain or weakness, or sixth nerve palsy, or cauda equina syndrome. Muscle cramps, fasciculation or myoclonia, spinal convulsion, paralysis, or spasticity are unusual. General Adverse Reactions To Contrast Media Reactions known to occur with parenteral administration of iodinated ionic contrast agents (see the listing below) are possible with any nonionic agent. Approximately 95 percent of adverse reactions accompanying the use of other water-soluble intrvascularly administered contrast agents are mild to moderate in degree. However, life-threatening reactions and fatalities, mostly of cardiovascular origin, have occurred. Reported incidences of death from the administration of other iodinated contrast media range from 6.6 per 1 million (0.00066 percent) to 1 in 10,000 patients (0.01 percent). Most deaths occur during injection or 5 to 10 minutes later, the main feature being cardiac arrest with cardiovascular disease as the main aggravating factor. Isolated reports of hypotensive collapse and shock are found in the literature. The incidence of shock is estimated to be 1 out of 20,000 (0.005 percent) patients. Adverse reactions to injectable contrast media fall into two categories: chemotoxic reactions and idiosyncratic reactions. Chemotoxic reactions result from the physicochemical properties of the contrast medium, the dose, and the speed of injection. All hemodynamic disturbances and injuries to organs or vessels perfused by the contrast medium are included in this category. During intrathecal use, there is a lower incidence of electroencephalographic changes as well as neurotoxicity by virtue of the intrinsic properties of the iopamidol molecule. Idiosyncratic reactions include all other reactions. They occur more frequently in patients 20 to 40 years old. Idiosyncratic reactions may or may not be dependent on the amount of drug injected, the speed of injection, the mode of injection, and the radiographic procedure. Idiosyncratic reactions are subdivided into minor, intermediate, and severe. The minor reactions are self-limited and of short duration; the severe reactions are life-threatening and treatment is urgent and mandatory. The reported incidence of adverse reactions to contrast media in patients with a history of allergy is twice that for the general population. Patients with a history of previous reactions to a contrast medium are three times more susceptible than other patients. However, sensitivity to contrast media does not appear to increase with repeated examinations. Most adverse reactions to intravascular contrast agents appear within one to three minutes after the start of injection, but delayed reactions may occur (see PRECAUTIONS-GENERAL). Because measurable plasma levels are attained following the intrathecal administration of lopamidol, adverse reactions reported with the use of intravascular contrast agents are theoretically possible. These include: Cardiovascular: vasodilation (feeling of warmth), cerebral hematomas, hemodynamic disturbances, sinus brady cardia, transient electrocardiographic abnormalities, ventricular fibrillation, pentechiae. Digestive: nausea, vomiting, severe unilateral or bilateral swelling of the parotid and submaxillary glands. Nervous: paresthesia, dizziness, convulsions, paralysis, coma. Respiratory: increased cough, asthma, dyspnea, laryngeal edema, pulmonary edema, bronchospasm, rhinitis. Skin and Appendages: injection site pain usually due to extravasation and/or erythematous swelling, skin necrosis, urticaria. Urogenital: osmotic nephrosis of proximal tubular cells, renal failure, pain. Special Senses: perversion of taste; bilateral ocular irritation; lacrimation; itching; conjunctival chemosis, infection, and conjunctivitis. The following reactions may also occur: neutropenia, thrombophlebitis, flushing, pallor, weakness, severe retching and chocking, wheezing, cramps, tremors, and sneezing."$$
"Drug Interactions Other drugs should not be admixed with iopamidol (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Drug Incompatibilities )."$$
"Drug Interactions Renal toxicity has been reported in a few patients with liver dysfunction who were given oral cholecystographic agents followed by intravascular contrast agents. Administration of intravascular agents should therefore be postponed in any patient with a known or suspected hepatic or biliary disorder who has recently received a cholecystographic contrast agent. Other drugs should not be admixed with iopamidol."$$
