
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions encountered in the administration of FORANE (isoflurane, USP) are in general dose dependent extensions of pharmacophysiologic effects and include respiratory depression, hypotension and arrhythmias. Shivering, nausea, vomiting and ileus have been observed in the postoperative period. As with all other general anesthetics, transient elevations in white blood count have been observed even in the absence of surgical stress. See WARNINGS for information regarding malignant hyperthermia and elevated carboxyhemoglobin levels. During marketing, there have been rare reports of mild, moderate and severe (some fatal) postoperative hepatic dysfunction and hepatitis. FORANE (isoflurane, USP) has also been associated with perioperative hyperkalemia (see WARNINGS). Post-Marketing Events The following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of FORANE (isoflurane, USP). Due to the spontaneous nature of these reports, the actual incidence and relationship of FORANE (isoflurane, USP) to these events cannot be established with certainty. Cardiac Disorders: Cardiac arrest Hepatobiliary Disorders: Hepatic necrosis, Hepatic failure"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions encountered in the administration of isoflurane are in general dose dependent extensions of pharmacophysiologic effects and include respiratory depression, hypotension and arrhythmias. Shivering, nausea, vomiting and ileus have been observed in the postoperative period. As with all other general anesthetics, transient elevations in white blood count have been observed even in the absence of surgical stress. See WARNINGS for information regarding malignant hyperthermia and elevated carboxyhemoglobin levels. During marketing, there have been rare reports of mild, moderate and severe (some fatal) postoperative hepatic dysfunction and hepatitis. Isoflurane has also been associated with perioperative hyperkalemia (see WARNINGS). Post-Marketing Events: The following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of isoflurane. Due to the spontaneous nature of these reports, the actual incidence and relationship of isoflurane, these events cannot be established with certainty. Cardiac Disorders: Cardiac arrest Hepatobiliary Disorders: Hepatic necrosis, Hepatic failure"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions encountered in the administration of isoflurane are in general dose dependent extensions of pharmacophysiologic effects and include respiratory depression, hypotension and arrhythmias. Shivering, nausea, vomiting and ileus have been observed in the postoperative period. As with all other general anesthetics, transient elevations in white blood count have been observed even in the absence of surgical stress. See WARNINGS for information regarding malignant hyperthermia and elevated carboxyhemoglobin levels. During marketing, there have been rare reports of mild, moderate and severe (some fatal) postoperative hepatic dysfunction and hepatitis. Isoflurane has also been associated with perioperative hyperkalemia (see WARNINGS ). Post-Marketing Events The following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of isoflurane. Due to the spontaneous nature of these reports, the actual incidence and relationship of isoflurane to these events cannot be established with certainty. Cardiac Disorders: Cardiac arrest Hepatobiliary Disorders : Hepatic necrosis, Hepatic failure."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions encountered in the administration of Isoflurane, USP are in general dose dependent extensions of pharmacophysiologic effects and include respiratory depression, hypotension and arrhythmias. Shivering, nausea, vomiting and ileus have been observed in the postoperative period. As with all other general anesthetics, transient elevations in white blood count have been observed even in the absence of surgical stress. See WARNINGS for information regarding malignant hyperthermia and elevated carboxyhemoglobin levels. During marketing, there have been rare reports of mild, moderate and severe (some fatal) postoperative hepatic dysfunction and hepatitis. Isoflurane USP has also been associated with perioperative hyperkalemia (see WARNINGS). There have been rare post-marketing reports of hepatic failure and hepatic necrosis associated with the use of potent volatile anesthetic agents, including Isoflurane USP. Due to the spontaneous nature of these reports, the actual incidence and relationship of Isoflurane USP to these events cannot be established with certainty."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions encountered in the administration of Isoflurane, USP are in general dose dependent extensions of pharmacophysiologic effects and include respiratory depression, hypotension and arrhythmias.Shivering, nausea, vomiting and ileus have been observed in the postoperative period.As with all other general anesthetics, transient elevations in white blood count have been observed even in the absence of surgical stress. See WARNINGS for information regarding malignant hyperthermia and elevated carboxyhemoglobin levels.During marketing, there have been rare reports of mild, moderate and severe (some fatal) postoperative hepatic dysfunction and hepatitis.Isoflurane USP has also been associated with perioperative hyperkalemia (see WARNINGS).There have been rare post-marketing reports of hepatic failure and hepatic necrosis associated with the use of potent volatile anesthetic agents, including Isoflurane USP. Due to the spontaneous nature of these reports, the actual incidence and relationship of Isoflurane USP to these events cannot be established with certainty"$$
"Drug Interactions Isoflurane potentiates the muscle relaxant effect of all muscle relaxants, most notably nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, and MAC (minimum alveolar concentration) is reduced by concomitant administration of N2O. See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ."$$
"Drug Interactions Isoflurane potentiates the muscle relaxant effect of all muscle relaxants, most notably nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, and MAC (minimum alveolar concentration) is reduced by concomitant administration of N2O. See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Isoflurane potentiates the muscle relaxant effect of all muscle relaxants, most notably nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, and MAC (minimum alveolar concentration) is reduced by concomitant administration of N2O. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY)."$$
