"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ABSORICA must not be used by female patients who are or may become pregnant. There is an extremely high risk that severe birth defects will result if pregnancy occurs while taking ABSORICA in any amount, even for short periods of time. -Unacceptable Contraception: Micro-dosed progesterone preparations are not an acceptable method of contraception during ABSORICA therapy (5.3) -Psychiatric Disorders: Depression, psychosis, suicidal thoughts and behavior, and aggressive and/or violent behaviors (5.4) -Pseudotumor cerebri, some cases with concomitant tetracyclines (5.5) -Serious skin reactions: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) (5.6) -Acute pancreatitis, rarely fatal hemorrhagic pancreatitis, in patients with either elevated or normal serum triglyceride levels (5.7) -Lipid Abnormalities: Triglyceridemia low HDL and elevation of cholesterol. Monitor lipid levels at regular intervals (5.8, 5.15) -Hearing Impairment (5.9) -Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests at regular intervals (5.10, 5.15) -Inflammatory Bowel Disease (5.11) -Skeletal Abnormalities: Arthralgias, back pain, decreases in bone mineral density and premature epiphyseal closure (5.12) -Ocular Abnormalities: corneal opacities, decreased night vision (5.13) -Glucose and CPK Abnormalities (5.15) 5.1 Embryofetal Toxicity Teratogenicity Major congenital malformations, spontaneous abortions, and premature births have been documented following pregnancy exposure to isotretinoin [seeUse in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Females of childbearing potential must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements described in the iPLEDGE program [seeWarnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. There are no accurate means of determining whether an exposed fetus has been affected. No Blood Donation Patients must be informed not to donate blood during isotretinoin therapy and for 1 month following discontinuation of the drug because the blood might be given to a pregnant female patient whose fetus must not be exposed to isotretinoin. 5.2 iPLEDGE Program Because of the risk of teratogenicity and to minimize fetal exposure, ABSORICA is available only through a restricted program under a REMS called iPLEDGE. Under the ABSORICA REMS, prescribers, patients, pharmacies, and distributors must enroll and be registered in the program. ABSORICA must not be prescribed, dispensed or otherwise obtained through the internet or any other means outside of the iPLEDGE program. Only FDA-approved isotretinoin products must be distributed, prescribed, dispensed, and used. Required components of the iPLEDGE Program are: -ABSORICA must only be prescribed by prescribers who are registered and activated with the iPLEDGE program and agree to comply with the REMS requirements described in the booklets entitled The Guide to Best Practices for the iPLEDGE Program, The iPLEDGE Program Prescriber Contraception Counseling Guide, and Recognizing Psychiatric Disorders in Adolescents and Young Adults: A Guide for Prescribers of Isotretinoin. -Male patients and Female patients not of childbearing potential: To obtain ABSORICA, these patients must understand the risks and benefits of ABSORICA, comply with the REMS requirements described in the booklet entitled The iPLEDGE Program Guide to Isotretinoin for Male Patients and Female Patients Who Cannot Get Pregnant, and sign a Patient Information/Informed Consent form. -Female patients of childbearing potential: ABSORICA is contraindicated in female patients who are or may become pregnant [seeContraindications (4.1)]. -Female patients of childbearing potential who are not pregnant must understand the risks and benefits, comply with the REMS requirements described in the booklet entitled The iPLEDGE Program Guide to Isotretinoin for Female Patients Who Can Get Pregnant and The iPLEDGE Program Birth Control Workbook (including the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [seeUse in Specific Populations (8.6) and Patient Counseling Information (17)]), and sign a Patient Information/Informed Consent form and Patient Information/Informed Consent About Birth Defects form. Additionally, the patient must answer questions about the iPLEDGE program and pregnancy prevention monthly. -Pharmacies that dispense ABSORICA must be registered and activated with iPLEDGE, must only dispense to patients who are authorized to receive ABSORICA, and agree to comply with the REMS requirements described in the booklet entitled The Pharmacist Guide for the iPLEDGE Program. -Female patients of childbearing potential must fill and pick up the prescription within 7 days of the specimen collection for the pregnancy test; male patients and female patients not of childbearing potential must fill and pick up the prescription within 30 days of the office visit. -ABSORICA must only be dispensed in no more than a 30-day supply with a Medication Guide. Refills require a new prescription and a new authorization from the iPLEDGE system. -Wholesalers and distributors that distribute ABSORICA must be registered with iPLEDGE and agree to comply with the REMS requirements. If a pregnancy does occur during ABSORICA treatment, ABSORICA must be discontinued immediately. The patient should be referred to an obstetrician-gynecologist experienced in reproductive toxicity for further evaluation and counseling. Any suspected fetal exposure during or 1 month after ABSORICA therapy must be reported immediately to the FDA via the MedWatch telephone number 1-800-FDA-1088 and also to the iPLEDGE pregnancy registry at 1-866-495-0654 or via the internet (www.ipledgeprogram.com). Further information, including a list of qualified pharmacies, is available at www.ipledgeprogram.com or 1-866-495-0654. 5.3 Unacceptable Contraception Micro-dosed Progesterone Preparations Micro-dosed progesterone preparations ("minipills" that do not contain an estrogen) are an inadequate method of contraception during ABSORICA therapy. 5.4 Psychiatric Disorders Isotretinoin may cause depression, psychosis and, rarely, suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, suicide, and aggressive and/or violent behaviors. No mechanism of action has been established for these reactions [seeAdverse Reactions (6.1)]. Prescribers should read the brochure, Recognizing Psychiatric Disorders in Adolescents and Young Adults: A Guide for Prescribers of Isotretinoin. Prescribers should be alert to the warning signs of psychiatric disorders to guide patients to receive the help they need. Therefore, prior to initiation of ABSORICA therapy, patients and family members should be asked about any history of psychiatric disorder, and at each visit during therapy patients should be assessed for symptoms of depression, mood disturbance, psychosis, or aggression to determine if further evaluation may be necessary. Signs and symptoms of depression, as described in the brochure (Recognizing Psychiatric Disorders in Adolescents and Young Adults), include sad mood, hopelessness, feelings of guilt, worthlessness or helplessness, loss of pleasure or interest in activities, fatigue, difficulty concentrating, change in sleep pattern, change in weight or appetite, suicidal thoughts or attempts, restlessness, irritability, acting on dangerous impulses, and persistent physical symptoms unresponsive to treatment. Patients should stop ABSORICA and the patient or a family member should promptly contact their prescriber if the patient develops depression, mood disturbance, psychosis, or aggression, without waiting until the next visit. Discontinuation of ABSORICA therapy may be insufficient; further evaluation may be necessary. While such monitoring may be helpful, it may not detect all patients at risk. Patients may report mental health problems or family history of psychiatric disorders. These reports should be discussed with the patient and/or the patient's family. A referral to a mental health professional may be necessary. The physician should consider whether ABSORICA therapy is appropriate in this setting; for some patients the risks may outweigh the benefits of ABSORICA therapy. 5.5 Pseudotumor Cerebri Isotretinoin use has been associated with cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. Concomitant treatment with tetracyclines should therefore be avoided. Early signs and symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri include papilledema, headache, nausea and vomiting, and visual disturbances. Patients with these symptoms should be screened for papilledema and, if present, they should be told to discontinue ABSORICA immediately and be referred to a neurologist for further diagnosis and care [seeAdverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Serious Skin Reactions There have been post-marketing reports of erythema multiforme and severe skin reactions [e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN)] associated with isotretinoin use. These reactions may be serious and result in death, life-threatening events, hospitalization, or disability. Patients should be monitored closely for severe skin reactions, and discontinuation of ABSORICA should be considered if warranted. 5.7 Pancreatitis Acute pancreatitis has been reported in isotretinoin-treated patients with either elevated or normal serum triglyceride levels. In rare instances, fatal hemorrhagic pancreatitis has been reported. ABSORICA should be stopped if hypertriglyceridemia cannot be controlled at an acceptable level or if symptoms of pancreatitis occur. 5.8 Lipid Abnormalities Elevations of serum triglycerides in excess of 800 mg/dL have been reported in patients treated with isotretinoin. Marked elevations of serum triglycerides were reported in approximately 25% of patients receiving isotretinoin in clinical trials. In addition, approximately 15% developed a decrease in high-density lipoproteins and about 7% showed an increase in cholesterol levels. In clinical trials, the effects of triglycerides, HDL and cholesterol were reversible upon cessation of isotretinoin therapy. Some patients have been able to reverse triglyceride elevation by reduction in weight, restriction of dietary fat and alcohol, and reduction in the dose while continuing isotretinoin. Blood lipid determinations should be performed before ABSORICA is given and then at intervals until the lipid response to ABSORICA is established, which usually occurs within 4 weeks. Especially careful consideration must be given to risk/benefit for patients who may be at high risk of triglyceridemia during ABSORICA therapy (patients with diabetes, obesity, increased alcohol intake, lipid metabolism disorder or familial history of lipid metabolism disorder). If ABSORICA therapy is instituted, more frequent checks of serum values for lipids and/or blood sugar are recommended [seeWarnings and Precautions (5.15)]. The cardiovascular consequences of hypertriglyceridemia associated with isotretinoin are unknown. 5.9 Hearing Impairment Impaired hearing has been reported in patients taking isotretinoin; in some cases, the hearing impairment has been reported to persist after therapy has been discontinued. Mechanism(s) and causality for this reaction have not been established. Patients who experience tinnitus or hearing impairment should discontinue ABSORICA treatment and be referred for specialized care for further evaluation [seeAdverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.10 Hepatotoxicity Clinical hepatitis considered to be possibly or probably related to isotretinoin therapy has been reported. Additionally, mild to moderate elevations of liver enzymes have been observed in approximately 15% of individuals treated during clinical trials with isotretinoin, some of which normalized with dosage reduction or continued administration of the drug. If normalization does not readily occur or if hepatitis is suspected during treatment with ABSORICA, the drug should be discontinued and the etiology further investigated. 5.11 Inflammatory Bowel Disease Isotretinoin has been associated with inflammatory bowel disease (including regional ileitis) in patients without a prior history of intestinal disorders. In some instances, symptoms have been reported to persist after isotretinoin treatment has been stopped. Patients experiencing abdominal pain, rectal bleeding or severe diarrhea should discontinue ABSORICA immediately [seeAdverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.12 Skeletal Abnormalities Bone Mineral Density Changes Isotretinoin may have a negative effect on bone mineral density (BMD) in some patients. In a clinical trial of ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin), 27/306 (8.8%) of adolescents had BMD declines, defined as >= 4% lumbar spine or total hip, or >= 5% femoral neck, during the 20 week treatment period. Repeat scans conducted within 2-3 months after the post-treatment scan showed no recovery of BMD. Longer term data at 4-11 months showed that 3 out of 7 patients had total hip and femoral neck BMD below pre-treatment baseline, and 2 others did not show the increase in BMD above baseline expected in this adolescent population. Therefore, physicians should use caution when prescribing ABSORICA to patients with a history of childhood osteoporosis conditions, osteomalacia, or other disorders of bone metabolism. This would include patients diagnosed with anorexia nervosa and those who are on chronic drug therapy that causes drug-induced osteoporosis/osteomalacia and/or affects vitamin D metabolism, such as systemic corticosteroids and any anticonvulsant [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Musculoskeletal Abnormalities Approximately 16% of patients treated with isotretinoin in a clinical trial developed musculoskeletal symptoms (including arthralgia) during treatment. In general, these symptoms were mild to moderate, but occasionally required discontinuation of the drug. In a trial of pediatric patients treated with isotretinoin, approximately 29% (104/358) developed back pain. Back pain was severe in 13.5% (14/104) of the cases and occurred at a higher frequency in female patients than male patients. Arthralgias were experienced in 22% (79/358) of pediatric patients. Arthralgias were severe in 7.6% (6/79) of patients. Appropriate evaluation of the musculoskeletal system should be done in patients who present with these symptoms during or after a course of ABSORICA. Consideration should be given to discontinuation of ABSORICA if any significant abnormality is found. There have been spontaneous reports of osteoporosis, osteopenia, bone fractures and/or delayed healing of bone fractures in patients while on therapy with isotretinoin or following cessation of therapy with isotretinoin. While causality to isotretinoin has not been established, an effect cannot be ruled out. Patients may be at an increased risk when participating in sports with repetitive impact where the risks of spondylolisthesis with and without pars fractures and hip growth plate injures in early and late adolescence are known. Effects of multiple courses of isotretinoin on the developing musculoskeletal system are unknown. There is some evidence that long-term, high-dose, or multiple courses of therapy with isotretinoin have more of an effect than a single course of therapy on the musculoskeletal system. Longer term effects have not been studied. It is important that ABSORICA be given at the recommended doses for no longer than the recommended duration. Hyperostosis A high prevalence of skeletal hyperostosis was noted in clinical trials for disorders of keratinization with a mean dose of 2.24 mg/kg/day of isotretinoin. Additionally, skeletal hyperostosis was noted in 6 of 8 patients in a prospective trial of disorders of keratinization. Minimal skeletal hyperostosis and calcification of ligaments and tendons have also been observed by x-ray in prospective trials of nodular acne patients treated with a single course of therapy at recommended doses. The skeletal effects of multiple isotretinoin treatment courses for acne are unknown. In a clinical trial of 217 pediatric patients (12 to 17 years) with severe recalcitrant nodular acne, hyperostosis was not observed after 16 to 20 weeks of treatment with approximately 1 mg/kg/day of isotretinoin given in two divided doses. Hyperostosis may require a longer time frame to appear. The clinical course and significance remain unknown. Premature Epiphyseal Closure There are spontaneous literature reports of premature epiphyseal closure in acne patients receiving recommended doses of isotretinoin. The effect of multiple courses of isotretinoin on epiphyseal closure is unknown. In a 20-week clinical trial that included 289 adolescents on ABSORICA or a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin) who had hand radiographs taken to assess bone age, a total of 9 (3.11%) patients had bone age changes that were clinically significant and for which a drug-related effect cannot be excluded. 5.13 Ocular Abnormalities Visual problems should be carefully monitored. All ABSORICA patients experiencing visual difficulties should discontinue ABSORICA treatment and have an ophthalmological examination [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Corneal Opacities Corneal opacities have occurred in patients receiving isotretinoin for acne and more frequently when higher drug dosages were used in patients with disorders of keratinization. The corneal opacities that have been observed in clinical trial patients treated with isotretinoin have either completely resolved or were resolving at follow-up 6 to 7 weeks after discontinuation of the drug [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Decreased Night Vision Decreased night vision has been reported during isotretinoin therapy and in some instances the event has persisted after therapy was discontinued. Because the onset in some patients was sudden, patients should be advised of this potential problem and warned to be cautious when driving or operating any vehicle at night. Dry Eye Dry eye has been reported in subjects during isotretinoin therapy. Patients who wear contact lenses may have trouble wearing them while on ABSORICA treatment and afterwards. 5.14 Hypersensitivity Anaphylactic reactions and other allergic reactions have been reported in isotretinoin-treated patients. Cutaneous allergic reactions and serious cases of allergic vasculitis, often with purpura (bruises and red patches) of the extremities and extracutaneous involvement (including renal) have been reported. Severe allergic reaction necessitates discontinuation of therapy and appropriate medical management. 5.15 Laboratory Monitoring for Adverse Reactions Lipids Test Pretreatment and follow-up blood lipids should be obtained under fasting conditions. After consumption of alcohol, at least 36 hours should elapse before these determinations are made. It is recommended that these tests be performed at weekly or biweekly intervals until the lipid response to ABSORICA is established. The incidence of hypertriglyceridemia is 1 patient in 4 on isotretinoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Liver Function Test Since elevations of liver enzymes have been observed during clinical trials, and hepatitis has been reported in patients on isotretinoin, pretreatment and follow-up liver function tests should be performed at weekly or biweekly intervals until the response to ABSORICA has been established [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Glucose Some patients receiving isotretinoin have experienced problems in the control of their blood sugar. In addition, new cases of diabetes have been diagnosed during isotretinoin therapy, although no causal relationship has been established. CPK Some patients undergoing vigorous physical activity while on isotretinoin therapy have experienced elevated CPK levels; however, the clinical significance is unknown. There have been rare postmarketing reports of rhabdomyolysis, some associated with strenuous physical activity. In an isotretinoin clinical trial of 924 patients, marked elevations in CPK (>=350 U/L) were observed in approximately 24% of patients. In another clinical trial of 217 pediatric patients (12 - 17 years) elevations in CPK were observed in 12% of patients, including those undergoing strenuous physical activity in association with reported musculoskeletal adverse events such as back pain, arthralgia, limb injury, or muscle sprain. In these patients, approximately half of the CPK elevations returned to normal within 2 weeks and half returned to normal within 4 weeks. No cases of rhabdomyolysis were reported in this clinical trial."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions with ABSORICA or other isotretinoin products are described in more detail in other sections of the labeling: -Embryofetal Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Psychiatric Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Pseudotumor Cerebri [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Pancreatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Lipid Abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Hearing Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] -Inflammatory Bowel Disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] -Skeletal Abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] -Ocular Abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] -Hypersensitivity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=5%) are: lip dry, dry skin, back pain, dry eye, arthralgia, epistaxis, headache, nasopharyngitis, chapped lips, dermatitis, blood creatine kinase increased, cheilitis, musculoskeletal discomfort, upper respiratory tract infection, visual acuity reduced (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Ranbaxy, Inc. at 1-800-406-7984 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch or iPLEDGE at (1-866-495-0654). 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of ABSORICA cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of other drugs and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reactions listed below reflect both clinical experience with ABSORICA, and consider other adverse reactions that are known from clinical trials and the post-marketing surveillance with oral isotretinoin. The relationship of some of these events to isotretinoin therapy is unknown. Many of the side effects and adverse events seen in patients receiving isotretinoin are similar to those described in patients taking very high doses of vitamin A (dryness of the skin and mucous membranes, e.g., of the lips, nasal passage, and eyes). Dose Relationship Cheilitis and hypertriglyceridemia are adverse reactions that are usually dose related. Most adverse reactions reported in clinical trials with isotretinoin were reversible when therapy was discontinued; however, some persisted after cessation of therapy. Body as a Whole The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): fatigue, irritability, pain. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: allergic reactions, including vasculitis, systemic hypersensitivity, edema, lymphadenopathy, weight loss. Cardiovascular The following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: vascular thrombotic disease, stroke, palpitation, tachycardia. Endocrine/Metabolism and Nutritional The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): decreased appetite, weight fluctuation, hyperlipidaemia. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: hypertriglyceridemia, alterations in blood sugar. Gastrointestinal The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): lip dry, chapped lips, cheilitis, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, vomiting. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: inflammatory bowel disease, hepatitis, pancreatitis, bleeding and inflammation of the gums, colitis, esophagitis/esophageal ulceration, ileitis, and other nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms. Hematologic The following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: allergic reactions, anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, rare reports of agranulocytosis. Infections and infestations The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): nasopharyngitis, hordeolum, upper respiratory tract infection. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reaction has been reported with isotretinoin: infections (including disseminated herpes simplex). Laboratory Abnormalities The following changes in laboratory tests have been noted in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): blood creatine phosphokinase (CPK) increased, blood triglycerides increased, alanine aminotransferase (SGPT) increased, aspartate aminotransferase (SGOT) increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGTP) increased, blood cholesterol increased, low density lipoprotein (LDL) increased, white blood cell count decreased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, blood bilirubin increased, blood glucose increased, high density lipopoprotein (HDL) decreased, bone mineral density decreased. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: increased LDH, elevation of fasting blood sugar, hyperuricemia, decreases in red blood cell parameters, decreases in white blood cell counts (including severe neutropenia and rare reports of agranulocytosis), elevated sedimentation rates, elevated platelet counts, thrombocytopenia, white cells in the urine, proteinuria, microscopic or gross hematuria. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): decreases in bone mineral density, musculoskeletal symptoms (sometimes severe) including back pain, athralgia, musculoskeletal discomfort, musculoskeletal pain, neck pain, pain in extremity, myalgia, musculoskeletal stiffness [seeWarnings and Precautions (5.12)]. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: skeletal hyperostosis, calcification of tendons and ligaments, premature epiphyseal closure, tendonitis, arthritis, transient pain in the chest, and rare reports of rhabdomyolysis. Neurological The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): headache, syncope. In addition to the above adverse reactions, other adverse reactions reported with isotretinoin include: pseudotumor cerebri, dizziness, drowsiness, lethargy, malaise, nervousness, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, weakness. Psychiatric The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): suicidal ideation, insomnia, anxiety, depression, irritability, panic attack, anger, euphoria, violent behaviors, emotional instability. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: suicide attempts, suicide, aggression, psychosis and hallucination auditory. Of the patients reporting depression, some reported that the depression subsided with discontinuation of therapy and recurred with reinstitution of therapy. Reproductive System The following adverse reaction has been reported with isotretinoin: abnormal menses. Respiratory The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): epistaxis, nasal dryness. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: bronchospasms (with or without a history of asthma), respiratory infection, voice alteration. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue The following adverse reactions have been reported in a clinical trial conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): dry skin, dermatitis, eczema, rash, dermatitis contact, alopecia, pruritus, sunburn, erythema. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: acne fulminans, alopecia (which in some cases persists), bruising, dry nose, eruptive xanthomas, erythema multiforme, flushing, fragility of skin, hair abnormalities, hirsutism, hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation, nail dystrophy, paronychia, peeling of palms and soles, photoallergic/photosensitizing reactions, pruritus, pyogenic granuloma, rash (including facial erythema, seborrhea, and eczema), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sunburn susceptibility increased, sweating, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vasculitis (including Wegener's granulomatosis), abnormal wound healing (delayed healing or exuberant granulation tissue with crusting). Special Senses Hearing: The following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: tinnitus and hearing impairment. Ocular: The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials conducted with ABSORICA and a generic product of Accutane(R) (isotretinoin): dry eye, visual acuity reduced, vision blurred, eye pruritis, eye irritation, asthenopia, decreased night vision, ocular hyperemia, increased lacrimation, and conjunctivitis. In addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been reported with isotretinoin: corneal opacities, decreased night vision which may persist, cataracts, color vision disorder, conjunctivitis, eyelid inflammation, keratitis, optic neuritis, photobia, visual disturbances. Renal and Urinary The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials conducted with isotretinoin: glomerulonephritis, nonspecific urogenital findings."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Vitamin A: may cause additive adverse reactions (7.1) -Tetracyclines: avoid concomitant use (7.2) -St. John's Wort: may interfere with oral contraceptives (7.4) 7.1 Vitamin A ABSORICA is closely related to vitamin A. Therefore, the use of both vitamin A and ABSORICA at the same time may lead to vitamin A side effects. Patients should be advised against taking vitamin supplements containing Vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. 7.2 Tetracyclines Concomitant treatment with ABSORICA and tetracyclines should be avoided because isotretinoin use has been associated with a number of cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. 7.3 Phenytoin Isotretinoin has not been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in a trial in seven healthy volunteers. These results are consistent with the in vitro finding that neither isotretinoin nor its metabolites induce or inhibit the activity of the CYP2C9 human hepatic P450 enzyme. Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical trials have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and isotretinoin. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. 7.4 St. John's Wort Isotretinoin use is associated with depression in some patients. Patients should be prospectively cautioned not to self-medicate with the herbal supplement St. John's Wort because a possible interaction has been suggested with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St. John's Wort. Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St. John's Wort. 7.5 Systemic Corticosteroids Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical trials have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between systemic corticosteroids and isotretinoin. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. 7.6 Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol In a trial of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol as an oral contraceptive agent, isotretinoin at the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg/day, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Prescribers are advised to consult the package insert of medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives, since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials and Post-marketing Surveillance The adverse reactions listed below reflect the experience from investigational studies of Amnesteem, and the post-marketing experience. The relationship of some of these events to Amnesteem therapy is unknown. Many of the side effects and adverse reactions seen in patients receiving Amnesteem are similar to those described in patients taking very high doses of vitamin A (dryness of the skin and mucous membranes, e.g., of the lips, nasal passage and eyes). Dose Relationship Cheilitis and hypertriglyceridemia are usually dose related. Most adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were reversible when therapy was discontinued; however, some persisted after cessation of therapy (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS). Body as a Whole: allergic reactions, including vasculitis, systemic hypersensitivity (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity), edema, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, weight loss Cardiovascular: palpitation, tachycardia, vascular thrombotic disease, stroke Endocrine/Metabolic: hypertriglyceridemia (see WARNINGS: Lipids), alterations in blood sugar levels (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests) Gastrointestinal: inflammatory bowel disease (see WARNINGS: Inflammatory Bowel Disease), hepatitis (see WARNINGS: Hepatotoxicity), pancreatitis (see WARNINGS: Lipids), bleeding and inflammation of the gums, colitis, esophagitis/esophageal ulceration, ileitis, nausea, other nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms Hematologic: allergic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity), anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, rare reports of agranulocytosis (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients). See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests for other hematological parameters Musculoskeletal: skeletal hyperostosis, calcification of tendons and ligaments, premature epiphyseal closure, decreases in bone mineral density (see WARNINGS: Skeletal), musculoskeletal symptoms (sometimes severe) including back pain, myalgia, and arthralgia (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients), transient pain in the chest (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients), arthritis, tendonitis, other types of bone abnormalities, elevations of CPK/rare reports of rhabdomyolysis (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests) Neurological: pseudotumor cerebri (see WARNINGS: Pseudotumor Cerebri), dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, lethargy, malaise, nervousness, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, syncope, weakness Psychiatric: suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, suicide, depression, psychosis, aggression, violent behaviors (see WARNINGS: Psychiatric Disorders), emotional instability Of the patients reporting depression, some reported that the depression subsided with discontinuation of therapy and recurred with reinstitution of therapy. Reproductive System: abnormal menses Respiratory: bronchospasms (with or without a history of asthma), respiratory infection, voice alteration Skin and Appendages: acne fulminans, alopecia (which in some cases persists), bruising, cheilitis (dry lips), dry mouth, dry nose, dry skin, epistaxis, eruptive xanthomas,7 erythema multiforme, flushing, fragility of skin, hair abnormalities, hirsutism, hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation, infections (including disseminated herpes simplex), nail dystrophy, paronychia, peeling of palms and soles, photoallergic/photosensitizing reactions, pruritus, pyogenic granuloma, rash (including facial erythema, seborrhea, and eczema), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, sunburn susceptibility increased, sweating, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vasculitis (including Wegener's granulomatosis; see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity) abnormal wound healing (delayed healing or exuberant granulation tissue with crusting; see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients) Special Senses: Hearing: hearing impairment (see WARNINGS: Hearing Impairment), tinnitus Vision: corneal opacities (see WARNINGS: Corneal Opacities), decreased night vision which may persist (see WARNINGS: Decreased Night Vision), cataracts, color vision disorder, conjunctivitis, dry eyes, eyelid inflammation, keratitis, optic neuritis, photophobia, visual disturbances Urinary System: glomerulonephritis (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity), nonspecific urogenital findings (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests for other urological parameters) Laboratory Elevation of plasma triglycerides (see WARNINGS: Lipids), decrease in serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, elevations of serum cholesterol during treatment Increased alkaline phosphatase, SGOT (AST), SGPT (ALT), GGTP or LDH (see WARNINGS: Hepatotoxicity) Elevation of fasting blood sugar, elevations of CPK (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests), hyperuricemia Decreases in red blood cell parameters, decreases in white blood cell counts (including severe neutropenia and rare reports of agranulocytosis; see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients), elevated sedimentation rates, elevated platelet counts, thrombocytopenia White cells in the urine, proteinuria, microscopic or gross hematuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials and Postmarketing Surveillance The adverse reactions listed below reflect the experience from investigational studies of Claravis, and the postmarketing experience. The relationship of some of these events to Claravis therapy is unknown. Many of the side effects and adverse reactions seen in patients receiving Claravis are similar to those described in patients taking very high doses of vitamin A (dryness of the skin and mucous membranes, e.g., of the lips, nasal passage, and eyes). Dose Relationship Cheilitis and hypertriglyceridemia are usually dose related. Most adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were reversible when therapy was discontinued; however, some persisted after cessation of therapy (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS:). Body as a Whole Allergic reactions, including vasculitis, systemic hypersensitivity (see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), edema, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, weight loss. Cardiovascular Palpitation, tachycardia, vascular thrombotic disease, stroke. Endocrine/Metabolic Hypertriglyceridemia (see WARNINGS, Lipids), alterations in blood sugar levels (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Gastrointestinal Inflammatory bowel disease (see WARNINGS, Inflammatory Bowel Disease), hepatitis (see WARNINGS, Hepatotoxicity), pancreatitis (see WARNINGS, Lipids), bleeding and inflammation of the gums, colitis, esophagitis/esophageal ulceration, ileitis, nausea, other nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms. Hematologic Allergic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, rare reports of agranulocytosis (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients). See PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests for other hematological parameters. Musculoskeletal Skeletal hyperostosis, calcification of tendons and ligaments, premature epiphyseal closure, decreases in bone mineral density (see WARNINGS, Skeletal), musculoskeletal symptoms (sometimes severe) including back pain, myalgia, and arthralgia (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients), transient pain in the chest (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients), arthritis, tendonitis, other types of bone abnormalities, elevations of CPK/rare reports of rhabdomyolysis (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Neurological Pseudotumor cerebri (see WARNINGS, Pseudotumor Cerebri), dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, lethargy, malaise, nervousness, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, syncope, weakness. Psychiatric Suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, suicide, depression, psychosis, aggression, violent behaviors (see WARNINGS, Psychiatric Disorders), emotional instability. Of the patients reporting depression, some reported that the depression subsided with discontinuation of therapy and recurred with reinstitution of therapy. Reproductive System Abnormal menses. Respiratory Bronchospasms (with or without a history of asthma), respiratory infection, voice alteration. Skin and Appendages Acne fulminans, alopecia (which in some cases persists), bruising, cheilitis (dry lips), dry mouth, dry nose, dry skin, epistaxis, eruptive xanthomas,7 erythema multiforme, flushing, fragility of skin, hair abnormalities, hirsutism, hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation, infections (including disseminated herpes simplex), nail dystrophy, paronychia, peeling of palms and soles, photoallergic/photosensitizing reactions, pruritus, pyogenic granuloma, rash (including facial erythema, seborrhea, and eczema), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sunburn susceptibility increased, sweating, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vasculitis (including Wegener's granulomatosis; see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), abnormal wound healing (delayed healing or exuberant granulation tissue with crusting; see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients). Special Senses: Hearing: hearing impairment (see WARNINGS, Hearing Impairment), tinnitus. Vision: corneal opacities (see WARNINGS, Corneal Opacities), decreased night vision which may persist (see WARNINGS, Decreased Night Vision), cataracts, color vision disorder, conjunctivitis, dry eyes, eyelid inflammation, keratitis, optic neuritis, photophobia, visual disturbances. Urinary System: glomerulonephritis (see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), nonspecific urogenital findings (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests for other urological parameters). Laboratory Elevation of plasma triglycerides (see WARNINGS, Lipids), decrease in serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, elevations of serum cholesterol during treatment. Increased alkaline phosphatase, SGOT (AST), SGPT (ALT), GGTP or LDH (see WARNINGS, Hepatotoxicity). Elevation of fasting blood sugar, elevations of CPK (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests), hyperuricemia. Decreases in red blood cell parameters, decreases in white blood cell counts (including severe neutropenia and rare reports of agranulocytosis; (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients), elevated sedimentation rates, elevated platelet counts, thrombocytopenia. White cells in the urine, proteinuria, microscopic or gross hematuria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials and Postmarketing Surveillance The adverse reactions listed below reflect the experience from investigational studies of Claravis, and the postmarketing experience. The relationship of some of these events to Claravis therapy is unknown. Many of the side effects and adverse reactions seen in patients receiving Claravis are similar to those described in patients taking very high doses of vitamin A (dryness of the skin and mucous membranes, e.g., of the lips, nasal passage, and eyes). Dose Relationship Cheilitis and hypertriglyceridemia are usually dose related. Most adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were reversible when therapy was discontinued; however, some persisted after cessation of therapy (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS). Body as a Whole Allergic reactions, including vasculitis, systemic hypersensitivity (see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), edema, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, weight loss. Cardiovascular Palpitation, tachycardia, vascular thrombotic disease, stroke. Endocrine/Metabolic Hypertriglyceridemia (see WARNINGS, Lipids), alterations in blood sugar levels (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Gastrointestinal Inflammatory bowel disease (see WARNINGS, Inflammatory Bowel Disease), hepatitis (see WARNINGS, Hepatotoxicity), pancreatitis (see WARNINGS, Lipids), bleeding and inflammation of the gums, colitis, esophagitis/esophageal ulceration, ileitis, nausea, other nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms. Hematologic Allergic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, rare reports of agranulocytosis (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients). See PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests for other hematological parameters. Musculoskeletal Skeletal hyperostosis, calcification of tendons and ligaments, premature epiphyseal closure, decreases in bone mineral density (see WARNINGS, Skeletal), musculoskeletal symptoms (sometimes severe) including back pain, myalgia, and arthralgia (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients), transient pain in the chest (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients), arthritis, tendonitis, other types of bone abnormalities, elevations of CPK/rare reports of rhabdomyolysis (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Neurological Pseudotumor cerebri (see WARNINGS, Pseudotumor Cerebri), dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, lethargy, malaise, nervousness, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, syncope, weakness. Psychiatric Suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, suicide, depression, psychosis, aggression, violent behaviors (see WARNINGS, Psychiatric Disorders), emotional instability. Of the patients reporting depression, some reported that the depression subsided with discontinuation of therapy and recurred with reinstitution of therapy. Reproductive System Abnormal menses. Respiratory Bronchospasms (with or without a history of asthma), respiratory infection, voice alteration. Skin and Appendages Acne fulminans, alopecia (which in some cases persists), bruising, cheilitis (dry lips), dry mouth, dry nose, dry skin, epistaxis, eruptive xanthomas,7 erythema multiforme, flushing, fragility of skin, hair abnormalities, hirsutism, hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation, infections (including disseminated herpes simplex), nail dystrophy, paronychia, peeling of palms and soles, photoallergic/photosensitizing reactions, pruritus, pyogenic granuloma, rash (including facial erythema, seborrhea, and eczema), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sunburn susceptibility increased, sweating, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vasculitis (including Wegener's granulomatosis; see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), abnormal wound healing (delayed healing or exuberant granulation tissue with crusting; see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients). Special Senses: Hearing: hearing impairment (see WARNINGS, Hearing Impairment), tinnitus. Vision: corneal opacities (see WARNINGS, Corneal Opacities), decreased night vision which may persist (see WARNINGS, Decreased Night Vision), cataracts, color vision disorder, conjunctivitis, dry eyes, eyelid inflammation, keratitis, optic neuritis, photophobia, visual disturbances. Urinary System: glomerulonephritis (see PRECAUTIONS, Hypersensitivity), nonspecific urogenital findings (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests for other urological parameters). Laboratory Elevation of plasma triglycerides (see WARNINGS, Lipids), decrease in serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, elevations of serum cholesterol during treatment. Increased alkaline phosphatase, SGOT (AST), SGPT (ALT), GGTP or LDH (see WARNINGS, Hepatotoxicity). Elevation of fasting blood sugar, elevations of CPK (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests), hyperuricemia. Decreases in red blood cell parameters, decreases in white blood cell counts (including severe neutropenia and rare reports of agranulocytosis; see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients), elevated sedimentation rates, elevated platelet counts, thrombocytopenia. White cells in the urine, proteinuria, microscopic or gross hematuria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials and Postmarketing Surveillance The adverse reactions listed below reflect the experience from investigational studies of Myorisan, and the postmarketing experience. The relationship of some of these events to Myorisan therapy is unknown. Many of the side effects and adverse reactions seen in patients receiving Myorisan are similar to those described in patients taking very high doses of vitamin A (dryness of the skin and mucous membranes, eg, of the lips, nasal passage, and eyes). Dose Relationship Cheilitis and hypertriglyceridemia are usually dose related. Most adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were reversible when therapy was discontinued; however, some persisted after cessation of therapy (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Body as a Whole allergic reactions, including vasculitis, systemic hypersensitivity (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), edema, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, weight loss Cardiovascular palpitation, tachycardia, vascular thrombotic disease, stroke Endocrine/Metabolic hypertriglyceridemia (see WARNINGS: Lipids ), alterations in blood sugar levels (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ). Gastrointestinal inflammatory bowel disease (see WARNINGS: Inflammatory Bowel Disease ), hepatitis (see WARNINGS: Hepatotoxicity ), pancreatitis (see WARNINGS: Lipids ), bleeding and inflammation of the gums, colitis, esophagitis/esophageal ulceration, ileitis, nausea, other nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms. Hematologic allergic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, rare reports of agranulocytosis (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests for other hematological parameters. Musculoskeletal skeletal hyperostosis, calcification of tendons and ligaments, premature epiphyseal closure, decreases in bone mineral density (see WARNINGS: Skeletal ), musculoskeletal symptoms (sometimes severe) including back pain, myalgia, and arthralgia (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ), transient pain in the chest (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ), arthritis, tendonitis, other types of bone abnormalities, elevations of CPK/rare reports of rhabdomyolysis (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ). Neurological pseudotumor cerebri (see WARNINGS: Pseudotumor Cerebri ), dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, lethargy, malaise, nervousness, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, syncope, weakness. Psychiatric suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, suicide, depression, psychosis, aggression, violent behaviors (see WARNINGS: Psychiatric Disorders ), emotional instability. Of the patients reporting depression, some reported that the depression subsided with discontinuation of therapy and recurred with reinstitution of therapy. Reproductive System Abnormal menses. Respiratory bronchospasms (with or without a history of asthma), respiratory infection, voice alteration Skin and Appendages acne fulminans, alopecia (which in some cases persists), bruising, cheilitis (dry lips), dry mouth, dry nose, dry skin, epistaxis, eruptive xanthomas,7 erythema multiforme, flushing, fragility of skin, hair abnormalities, hirsutism, hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation, infections (including disseminated herpes simplex), nail dystrophy, paronychia, peeling of palms and soles, photoallergic /photosensitizing reactions, pruritus, pyogenic granuloma, rash (including facial erythema, seborrhea, and eczema), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sunburn susceptibility increased, sweating, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vasculitis (including Wegener's granulomatosis; see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), abnormal wound healing (delayed healing or exuberant granulation tissue with crusting; see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ) Special Senses Hearing hearing impairment (see WARNINGS: Hearing Impairment ), tinnitus. Vision corneal opacities (see WARNINGS: Corneal Opacities ), decreased night vision which may persist (see WARNINGS: Decreased Night Vision ), cataracts, color vision disorder, conjunctivitis, dry eyes, eyelid inflammation, keratitis, optic neuritis, photophobia, visual disturbances Urinary System glomerulonephritis (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), nonspecific urogenital findings (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests for other urological parameters) Laboratory Elevation of plasma triglycerides (see WARNINGS: Lipids ), decrease in serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, elevations of serum cholesterol during treatment Increased alkaline phosphatase, SGOT (AST), SGPT (ALT), GGTP or LDH (see WARNINGS: Hepatotoxicity ) Elevation of fasting blood sugar, elevations of CPK (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ), hyperuricemia Decreases in red blood cell parameters, decreases in white blood cell counts (including severe neutropenia and rare reports of agranulocytosis; see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ), elevated sedimentation rates, elevated platelet counts, thrombocytopenia White cells in the urine, proteinuria, microscopic or gross hematuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials and Post-marketing Surveillance The adverse reactions listed below reflect the experience from investigational studies of Zenatane(TM), and the post-marketing experience. The relationship of some of these events to Zenatane(TM) therapy is unknown. Many of the side effects and adverse reactions seen in patients receiving Zenatane(TM) are similar to those described in patients taking very high doses of vitamin A (dryness of the skin and mucous membranes, e.g., of the lips, nasal passage, and eyes). Dose Relationship Cheilitis and hypertriglyceridemia are usually dose related. Most adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were reversible when therapy was discontinued; however, some persisted after cessation of therapy (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Body as a Whole allergic reactions, including vasculitis, systemic hypersensitivity (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), edema, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, weight loss Cardiovascular palpitation, tachycardia, vascular thrombotic disease, stroke Endocrine/Metabolic hypertriglyceridemia (see WARNINGS: Lipids ), alterations in blood sugar levels (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ) Gastrointestinal inflammatory bowel disease (see WARNINGS: Inflammatory Bowel Disease ), hepatitis (see WARNINGS: Hepatotoxicity ), pancreatitis (see WARNINGS: Lipids ), bleeding and inflammation of the gums, colitis, esophagitis/esophageal ulceration, ileitis, nausea, other nonspecific gastrointestinal symptoms Hematologic allergic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, rare reports of agranulocytosis (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests for other hematological parameters. Musculoskeletal skeletal hyperostosis, calcification of tendons and ligaments, premature epiphyseal closure, decreases in bone mineral density (see WARNINGS: Skeletal ), musculoskeletal symptoms (sometimes severe) including back pain, myalgia, and arthralgia (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ), transient pain in the chest (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ), arthritis, tendonitis, other types of bone abnormalities, elevations of CPK/rare reports of rhabdomyolysis (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ). Neurological pseudotumor cerebri (see WARNINGS: Pseudotumor Cerebri ), dizziness, drowsiness, headache, insomnia, lethargy, malaise, nervousness, paresthesias, seizures, stroke, syncope, weakness Psychiatric suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, suicide, depression, psychosis, aggression, violent behaviors (see WARNINGS: Psychiatric Disorders ), emotional instability Of the patients reporting depression, some reported that the depression subsided with discontinuation of therapy and recurred with reinstitution of therapy. Reproductive System abnormal menses Respiratory bronchospasms (with or without a history of asthma), respiratory infection, voice alteration Skin and Appendages acne fulminans, alopecia (which in some cases persists), bruising, cheilitis (dry lips), dry mouth, dry nose, dry skin, epistaxis, eruptive xanthomas,7 erythema multiforme, flushing, fragility of skin, hair abnormalities, hirsutism, hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation, infections (including disseminated herpes simplex), nail dystrophy, paronychia, peeling of palms and soles, photoallergic/photosensitizing reactions, pruritus, pyogenic granuloma, rash (including facial erythema, seborrhea, and eczema), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, sunburn susceptibility increased, sweating, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, vasculitis (including Wegener's granulomatosis; see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), abnormal wound healing (delayed healing or exuberant granulation tissue with crusting; see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ) Special Senses Hearing hearing impairment (see WARNINGS: Hearing Impairment ), tinnitus. Vision corneal opacities (see WARNINGS: Corneal Opacities ), decreased night vision which may persist (see WARNINGS: Decreased Night Vision ), cataracts, color vision disorder, conjunctivitis, dry eyes, eyelid inflammation, keratitis, optic neuritis, photophobia, visual disturbances Urinary System glomerulonephritis (see PRECAUTIONS: Hypersensitivity ), nonspecific urogenital findings (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests for other urological parameters) Laboratory Elevation of plasma triglycerides (see WARNINGS: Lipids ), decrease in serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, elevations of serum cholesterol during treatment Increased alkaline phosphatase, SGOT (AST), SGPT (ALT), GGTP or LDH (see WARNINGS: Hepatotoxicity ) Elevation of fasting blood sugar, elevations of CPK (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ), hyperuricemia Decreases in red blood cell parameters, decreases in white blood cell counts (including severe neutropenia and rare reports of agranulocytosis; see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ), elevated sedimentation rates, elevated platelet counts, thrombocytopenia White cells in the urine, proteinuria, microscopic or gross hematuria"$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions Vitamin A: Because of the relationship of Zenatane(TM) to vitamin A, patients should be advised against taking vitamin supplements containing vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. Tetracyclines: Concomitant treatment with Zenatane(TM) and tetracyclines should be avoided because Zenatane(TM) use has been associated with a number of cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. Micro-dosed Progesterone Preparations: Micro-dosed progesterone preparations ("minipills" that do not contain an estrogen) may be an inadequate method of contraception during Zenatane(TM) therapy. Although other hormonal contraceptives are highly effective, there have been reports of pregnancy from female patients who have used combined oral contraceptives, as well as transdermal patch/injectable/implantable/vaginal ring hormonal birth control products. These reports are more frequent for female patients who use only a single method of contraception. It is not known if hormonal contraceptives differ in their effectiveness when used with Zenatane(TM). Therefore, it is critically important for female patients of childbearing potential to select and commit to use two forms of effective contraception simultaneously, at least one of which must be a primary form (see PRECAUTIONS ). Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol: In a study of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving OrthoNovum(R) 7/7/7 Tablets as an oral contraceptive agent, Zenatane(TM) at the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg/day, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Prescribers are advised to consult the package insert of medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives, since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products. St. John's Wort: Zenatane(TM) use is associated with depression in some patients (see WARNINGS: Psychiatric Disorders and ADVERSE REACTIONS : Psychiatric). Patients should be prospectively cautioned not to self-medicate with the herbal supplement St. John's Wort because a possible interaction has been suggested with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St. John's Wort. Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St. John's Wort. Phenytoin: Zenatane(TM) has not been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in a study in seven healthy volunteers. These results are consistent with the in vitro finding that neither isotretinoin nor its metabolites induce or inhibit the activity of the CYP 2C9 human hepatic P450 enzyme. Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and Zenatane(TM). Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. Systemic Corticosteroids: Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between systemic corticosteroids and Zenatane(TM). Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together."$$
"Drug Interactions Vitamin A: Because of the relationship of Amnesteem to vitamin A, patients should be advised against taking vitamin supplements containing vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. Tetracyclines: Concomitant treatment with Amnesteem and tetracyclines should be avoided because Amnesteem use has been associated with a number of cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. Micro-dosed Progesterone Preparations: Micro-dosed progesterone preparations ("minipills" that do not contain an estrogen) may be an inadequate method of contraception during Amnesteem therapy. Although other hormonal contraceptives are highly effective, there have been reports of pregnancy from female patients who have used combined oral contraceptives, as well as transdermal patch/injectable/implantable/vaginal ring hormonal birth control products. These reports are more frequent for female patients who use only a single method of contraception. It is not known if hormonal contraceptives differ in their effectiveness when used with Amnesteem. Therefore, it is critically important for female patients of childbearing potential to select and commit to use two forms of effective contraception simultaneously, at least one of which must be a primary form (see PRECAUTIONS). Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol: In a study of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving OrthoNovum(R) 7/7/7 Tablets as an oral contraceptive agent, Amnesteem at the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg/day, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Prescribers are advised to consult the package insert of medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives, since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products. St. John's Wort: Amnesteem use is associated with depression in some patients (see WARNINGS: Psychiatric Disorders and ADVERSE REACTIONS: Psychiatric). Patients should be prospectively cautioned not to self-medicate with the herbal supplement St. John's Wort because a possible interaction has been suggested with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St. John's Wort. Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St. John's Wort. Phenytoin: Amnesteem has not been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in a study in seven healthy volunteers. These results are consistent with the in vitro finding that neither isotretinoin nor its metabolites induce or inhibit the activity of the CYP 2C9 human hepatic P450 enzyme. Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and Amnesteem. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. Systemic Corticosteroids: Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between systemic corticosteroids and Amnesteem. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together."$$
"Drug Interactions - Vitamin A: Because of the relationship of Amnesteem to vitamin A, patients should be advised against taking vitamin supplements containing vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. - Tetracyclines: Concomitant treatment with Amnesteem and tetracyclines should be avoided because Amnesteem use has been associated with a number of cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. - Micro-dosed Progesterone Preparations: Micro-dosed progesterone preparations ("minipills" that do not contain an estrogen) may be an inadequate method of contraception during Amnesteem therapy. Although other hormonal contraceptives are highly effective, there have been reports of pregnancy from female patients who have used combined oral contraceptives, as well as transdermal patch/injectable/implantable/vaginal ring hormonal birth control products. These reports are more frequent for female patients who use only a single method of contraception. It is not known if hormonal contraceptives differ in their effectiveness when used with Amnesteem. Therefore, it is critically important for females of reproductive potential to select and commit to use two forms of effective contraception simultaneously, at least one of which must be a primary form (see PRECAUTIONS). - Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol: In a study of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving OrthoNovum(R) 7/7/7 Tablets as an oral contraceptive agent, Amnesteem at the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg/day, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Prescribers are advised to consult the package insert of medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives, since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products. - St. John's Wort: Amnesteem use is associated with depression in some patients (see WARNINGS: Psychiatric Disorders and ADVERSE REACTIONS: Psychiatric). Patients should be prospectively cautioned not to self-medicate with the herbal supplement St. John's Wort because a possible interaction has been suggested with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St. John's Wort. Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St. John's Wort. - Phenytoin: Amnesteem has not been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in a study in seven healthy volunteers. These results are consistent with the in vitro finding that neither isotretinoin nor its metabolites induce or inhibit the activity of the CYP 2C9 human hepatic P450 enzyme. Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and Amnesteem. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. - Systemic Corticosteroids: Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between systemic corticosteroids and Amnesteem. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together."$$
"Drug Interactions Vitamin A: Because of the relationship of Claravis to vitamin A, patients should be advised against taking vitamin supplements containing vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. Tetracyclines: Concomitant treatment with Claravis and tetracyclines should be avoided because Claravis use has been associated with a number of cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. Micro-dosed Progesterone Preparations: Micro-dosed progesterone preparations ("minipills" that do not contain an estrogen) may be an inadequate method of contraception during Claravis therapy. Although other hormonal contraceptives are highly effective, there have been reports of pregnancy from female patients who have used combined oral contraceptives, as well as transdermal patch/injectable/implantable/vaginal ring hormonal birth control products. These reports are more frequent for female patients who use only a single method of contraception. It is not known if hormonal contraceptives differ in their effectiveness when used with Claravis. Therefore, it is critically important for female patients of childbearing potential to select and commit to use two forms of effective contraception simultaneously, at least one of which must be a primary form (see PRECAUTIONS). Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol: In a study of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving OrthoNovum(R) 7/7/7 Tablets as an oral contraceptive agent, Claravis at the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg/day, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Prescribers are advised to consult the package insert of medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives, since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products. St. John's Wort: Claravis use is associated with depression in some patients (see WARNINGS, Psychiatric Disorders and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Psychiatric). Patients should be prospectively cautioned not to self-medicate with the herbal supplement St. John's Wort because a possible interaction has been suggested with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St. John's Wort. Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St. John's Wort. Phenytoin: Claravis has not been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in a study in seven healthy volunteers. These results are consistent with the in vitro finding that neither isotretinoin nor its metabolites induce or inhibit the activity of the CYP 2C9 human hepatic P450 enzyme. Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and Claravis. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. Systemic Corticosteroids: Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between systemic corticosteroids and Claravis. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together."$$
"Drug Interactions -Vitamin A: Because of the relationship of Claravis to vitamin A, patients should be advised against taking vitamin supplements containing vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. -Tetracyclines: Concomitant treatment with Claravis and tetracyclines should be avoided because Claravis use has been associated with a number of cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. -Micro-dosed Progesterone Preparations: Micro-dosed progesterone preparations ("minipills" that do not contain an estrogen) may be an inadequate method of contraception during Claravis therapy. Although other hormonal contraceptives are highly effective, there have been reports of pregnancy from female patients who have used combined oral contraceptives, as well as transdermal patch/injectable/implantable/vaginal ring hormonal birth control products. These reports are more frequent for female patients who use only a single method of contraception. It is not known if hormonal contraceptives differ in their effectiveness when used with Claravis. Therefore, it is critically important for females of reproductive potential to select and commit to use two forms of effective contraception simultaneously, at least one of which must be a primary form (see PRECAUTIONS). -Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol: In a study of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving OrthoNovum(R) 7/7/7 Tablets as an oral contraceptive agent, Claravis at the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg/day, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Prescribers are advised to consult the package insert of medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives, since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products. -St. John's Wort: Claravis use is associated with depression in some patients (see WARNINGS, Psychiatric Disorders and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Psychiatric). Patients should be prospectively cautioned not to self-medicate with the herbal supplement St. John's Wort because a possible interaction has been suggested with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St. John's Wort. Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St. John's Wort. -Phenytoin: Claravis has not been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in a study in seven healthy volunteers. These results are consistent with the in vitro finding that neither isotretinoin nor its metabolites induce or inhibit the activity of the CYP 2C9 human hepatic P450 enzyme. Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and Claravis. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. -Systemic Corticosteroids: Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between systemic corticosteroids and Claravis. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together."$$
"Drug Interactions - Vitamin A: Because of the relationship of Myorisan to vitamin A, patients should be advised against taking vitamin supplements containing vitamin A to avoid additive toxic effects. - Tetracyclines: Concomitant treatment with Myorisan and tetracyclines should be avoided because Myorisan use has been associated with a number of cases of pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), some of which involved concomitant use of tetracyclines. - Micro-dosed Progesterone Preparations: Micro-dosed progesterone preparations ("minipills" that do not contain an estrogen) may be an inadequate method of contraception during Myorisan therapy. Although other hormonal contraceptives are highly effective, there have been reports of pregnancy from female patients who have used combined oral contraceptives, as well as transdermal patch/injectable/implantable/vaginal ring hormonal birth control products. These reports are more frequent for female patients who use only a single method of contraception. It is not known if hormonal contraceptives differ in their effectiveness when used with Myorisan. Therefore, it is critically important for females of reproductive potential to select and commit to use two forms of effective contraception simultaneously, at least one of which must be a primary form (see PRECAUTIONS ). - Norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol: In a study of 31 premenopausal female patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne receiving OrthoNovum(R) 7/7/7 Tablets as an oral contraceptive agent, Myorisan at the recommended dose of 1 mg/kg/day, did not induce clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone and in the serum levels of progesterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). Prescribers are advised to consult the package insert of medication administered concomitantly with hormonal contraceptives, since some medications may decrease the effectiveness of these birth control products. - St. John's Wort: Myorisan use is associated with depression in some patients (see WARNINGS: Psychiatric Disorders and ADVERSE REACTIONS: Psychiatric ). Patients should be prospectively cautioned not to self-medicate with the herbal supplement St. John's Wort because a possible interaction has been suggested with hormonal contraceptives based on reports of breakthrough bleeding on oral contraceptives shortly after starting St. John's Wort. Pregnancies have been reported by users of combined hormonal contraceptives who also used some form of St. John's Wort. - Phenytoin: Myorisan has not been shown to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in a study in seven healthy volunteers. These results are consistent with the in vitro finding that neither isotretinoin nor its metabolites induce or inhibit the activity of the CYP 2C9 human hepatic P450 enzyme. Phenytoin is known to cause osteomalacia. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between phenytoin and Myorisan. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together. - Systemic Corticosteroids: Systemic corticosteroids are known to cause osteoporosis. No formal clinical studies have been conducted to assess if there is an interactive effect on bone loss between systemic corticosteroids and Myorisan. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these drugs together."$$
