"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cases of CHF, peripheral edema, and pulmonary edema have been reported with itraconazole administration among patients being treated for onychomycosis and/or systemic fungal infections. (5.5) Cardiac Dysrhythmias: (5.2) Cardiac Disease: (5.3) Hepatic Effects: (5.4) Calcium Channel Blockers: (5.5) Neuropathy: (5.6) Hearing Loss: (5.7) 5.1 Congestive Heart Failure, Peripheral Edema, and Pulmonary Edema Cases of CHF, peripheral edema, and pulmonary edema have been reported with itraconazole administration among patients being treated for onychomycosis and/or systemic fungal infections. [See Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5), and Clinical Pharmacology (12) .] 5.2 Cardiac Dysrhythmias Life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias and/or sudden death have occurred in patients using cisapride, pimozide, levacetylmethadol (levomethadyl), methadone, or quinidine concomitantly with itraconazole and/or other CYP3A4 inhibitors. Concomitant administration of these drugs with ONMEL is contraindicated. [See Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5), and Drug Interactions (7).] 5.3 Cardiac Disease ONMEL should not be administered in patients with evidence of ventricular dysfunction such as congestive heart failure (CHF) or a history of CHF. Itraconazole has been shown to have a negative inotropic effect. When itraconazole was administered intravenously to anesthetized dogs, a dose-related negative inotropic effect was documented. In a healthy volunteer study of itraconazole injection, transient, asymptomatic decreases in left ventricular ejection fraction were observed using gated SPECT imaging; these resolved before the next infusion, 12 hours later. For patients with risk factors for congestive heart failure, physicians should carefully review the risks and benefits of ONMEL therapy. These risk factors include cardiac disease such as ischemic and valvular disease; significant pulmonary disease such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; and renal failure and other edematous disorders. Such patients should be informed of the signs and symptoms of CHF, should be treated with caution, and should be monitored for signs and symptoms of CHF during treatment. If signs or symptoms of CHF appear during administration of ONMEL, discontinue administration. 5.4 Hepatic Effects Itraconazole has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition, and some of these cases developed within the first week of treatment. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with hepatotoxicity, treatment should be discontinued immediately and liver function testing performed. In patients with elevated or abnormal liver enzymes or active liver disease, or who have experienced liver toxicity with other drugs, treatment with itraconazole is not recommended. Liver function monitoring should be done in patients with pre-existing hepatic function abnormalities or those who have experienced liver toxicity with other medications and should be considered in all patients receiving ONMEL. 5.5 Calcium Channel Blockers Calcium channel blockers can have negative inotropic effects which may be additive to those of itraconazole. In addition, itraconazole can inhibit the metabolism of calcium channel blockers. Therefore, caution should be used when co-administering itraconazole and calcium channel blockers due to an increased risk of CHF. Concomitant administration of ONMEL and nisoldipine is contraindicated. 5.6 Neuropathy If neuropathy occurs that may be attributable to ONMEL, the treatment should be discontinued. 5.7 Hearing Loss Transient or permanent hearing loss has been reported in patients receiving treatment with itraconazole. Several of these reports included concurrent administration of quinidine which is contraindicated. [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5), and Drug Interactions (7).] The hearing loss usually resolves when treatment is stopped, but can persist in some patients."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions observed in the treatment phase of the onychomycosis clinical trial (>1%) are upper respiratory tract infections, increased hepatic enzymes, hypoacusis, headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, arrhythmia, cough, sore throat and back pain. (6.1) Itraconazole has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merz Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-877-743-8454 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rate observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Patients in the trial for toenail onychomycosis were treated with a dosing regimen of 200 mg once daily for 12 consecutive weeks. The most commonly reported adverse reaction leading to discontinuation of ONMEL was increased hepatic enzyme (6 subjects, 1.0%), followed by dizziness (3 subjects, 0.5%). No other adverse reaction leading to discontinuation occurred in more than one subject. The table below lists all adverse reactions reported by at least 1% of patients who received ONMEL during 12 weeks of treatment: Table 1: Adverse Reactions Occurring at Frequencies >= 1% in the Onychomycosis Clinical Trial Incidence (%) Incidence (%) BODY SYSTEM/ADVERSE REACTION ONMEL Placebo tablet (N = 582) (N = 191) INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS Upper respiratory tract infections 6.0% 7.3% Bacteriuria 1.4% 1.6% Urinary tract infection 1.0% 0.5% INVESTIGATIONS Hepatic enzymes increased 2.9% 0.0% Electrocardiogram abnormal 1.4% 1.6% EAR AND LABYRINTH DISORDERS Hypoacusis 3.3% 3.1% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Headache 2.2% 1.6% Dizziness 1.2% 0.0% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Abdominal pain or discomfort 1.7% 2.6% Diarrhea 1.7% 3.1% Nausea 1.7% 1.6% GENERAL DISORDERS OF ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Fatigue 1.5% 2.6% CARDIAC DISORDERS Sinus Bradycardia 1.0% 0.0% RESPIRATORY, THORACIC AND MEDIASTINAL DISORDERS Cough 1.2% 0.0% Pharyngolaryngeal pain 1.0% 0.5% MUSCULOSKELETAL AND CONNECTIVE TISSUE DISORDERS Back pain 1.2% 2.1% 6.2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of itraconazole (all formulations) and are listed in Table 2 below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure. Table 2: Postmarketing Reports of Adverse Reactions for Itraconazole Blood and lymphatic system disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune system disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Metabolism and nutritional disorders: Hypertriglyceridemia, hypokalemia Nervous system disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, headache, dizziness Eye disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and labyrinth disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss, tinnitus Cardiac disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal disorders: Abdominal pain, vomiting, dyspepsia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, dysgeusia Hepato-biliary disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis, reversible increases in hepatic enzymes Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, erythema multiforme, alopecia, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, pruritus Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Myalgia, arthralgia Renal and urinary disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive system and breast disorders: Menstrual disorders, erectile dysfunction General disorders and administration site conditions: Peripheral edema"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant administration of ONMEL Tablets with certain drugs metabolized by the cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme system (CYP3A4) or transported by P-glycoprotein may result in increased plasma concentrations of those drugs, leading to potentially serious and/or life-threatening adverse events. (7.1) Drug Interactions with the following drugs or classes of drugs may occur: Antiarrhythmics, Anticonvulsants, Anti-HIV Agents, Antimycobacterials, Antineoplastics, Antipsychotics, Benzodiazepines, Calcium Channel Blockers, Gastric Acid Suppressors/Neutralizers, Gastrointestinal Motility Agents, HMG CoA-Reductase Inhibitors, Macrolide Antibiotics, Oral Hypoglycemic Agents, Polyenes, Opiate Analgesics. Not all drug interactions are included in Highlights. See Full Prescribing Information for complete listing. (7) 7.1 Effects of ONMEL on Other Drugs Itraconazole and its major metabolite, hydroxy-itraconazole, are strong inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme system (CYP3A4). Therefore, concomitant administration of ONMEL and certain drugs metabolized by the cytochrome CYP3A4 may result in increased plasma concentrations of those drugs due to decreased elimination, leading to potentially serious and/or life-threatening adverse events. Itraconazole is also an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporter and may result in increased plasma concentrations of drugs whose gastrointestinal absorption is regulated by P-gp. Whenever possible, plasma concentrations of these drugs should be monitored, and dosage adjustments made after concomitant ONMEL therapy is initiated. When appropriate, clinical monitoring for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects is advised. Upon discontinuation, itraconazole plasma concentrations decline gradually (especially in patients with hepatic cirrhosis or in those receiving CYP3A4 inhibitors). This is particularly important when initiating therapy with drugs whose metabolism is affected by itraconazole. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on ONMEL Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the plasma concentrations of itraconazole. ONMEL may not be effective in patients concomitantly taking ONMEL and one of these drugs. Therefore, administration of these drugs with ONMEL is not recommended. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of itraconazole. Patients who must take ONMEL concomitantly with one of these drugs should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of ONMEL. Table 3. Selected Drugs that altered or are predicted to alter the plasma concentration of itraconazole or have their plasma concentration altered by ONMELThis list is not all-inclusive. Drug plasma concentration increased by itraconazole Antiarrhythmics digoxin, dofetilide, quinidine, disopyramide Anticonvulsants carbamazepine Anti-HIV Agents indinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, maraviroc Antineoplastics busulfan, docetaxel, vinca alkaloids Antipsychotics pimozide Benzodiazepines alprazolam, diazepam, midazolam,For information on parenterally administered midazolam, see the Benzodiazepine paragraph below. triazolam Calcium Channel Blockers dihydropyridines (including nisoldipine and felodipine), verapamil Gastrointestinal Motility Agents cisapride HMG CoA-Reductase Inhibitors atorvastatin, cerivastatin, lovastatin, simvastatin Immunosuppressants Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus Oral Hypoglycemics oral hypoglycemics (repaglinide) Opiate Analgesics fentanyl, levacetylmethadol (levomethadyl), methadone Polyene Antifungals amphotericin B Other ergot alkaloids, halofantrine, alfentanil, buspirone, methylprednisolone, budesonide, dexamethasone, fluticasone, warfarin, cilostazol, eletriptan, fexofenadine, loperamide Decrease plasma concentration of itraconazole Anticonvulsants carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin Anti-HIV Agents nevirapine, efavirenz Antimycobacterials isoniazid, rifabutin, rifampin Gastric Acid Suppressors/Neutralizers antacids, H2-receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors Increase plasma concentration of itraconazole Macrolide Antibiotics clarithromycin, erythromycin Anti-HIV Agents indinavir, ritonavir Table 4. Selected Drugs that are contraindicated for use with itraconazoleThis list is not all-inclusive. Antipsychotics pimozide Antiarrhythmics dofetilide, quinidine Benzodiazepines oral midazolamFor information on parenterally administered midazolam, see the Benzodiazepine paragraph below., triazolam Calcium Channel Blockers Nisoldipine, felodipine Ergot Alkaloids dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), methylergometrine (methylergonovine) Gastrointestinal Motility Agents cisapride HMG CoA-Reductase Inhibitors lovastatin, simvastatin Opiate Analgesics levacetylmethadol (levomethadyl), methadone Antiarrhythmics The Class IA antiarrhythmic, quinidine and class III antiarrhythmic, dofetilide are known to prolong the QT interval. Co-administration of quinidine or dofetilide with itraconazole may increase plasma concentrations of quinidine or dofetilide, which could result in serious cardiovascular events. Therefore, concomitant administration of ONMEL and quinidine or dofetilide is contraindicated. [See Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5).] The Class IA antiarrhythmic, disopyramide has the potential to increase the QT interval at high plasma concentrations. Caution is advised when ONMEL and disopyramide are administered concomitantly. Concomitant administration of digoxin and itraconazole has led to increased plasma concentrations of digoxin via inhibition of P-glycoprotein. Anticonvulsants Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin are all inducers of CYP3A4. Reduced plasma concentrations of itraconazole were reported when itraconazole was administered concomitantly with phenytoin. Although interactions with carbamazepine and phenobarbital have not been studied, concomitant administration of ONMEL and these drugs would be expected to result in decreased plasma concentrations of itraconazole. In addition, in vivo studies have demonstrated an increase in plasma carbamazepine concentrations in subjects concomitantly receiving ketoconazole. Although there are no data regarding the effect of itraconazole on carbamazepine metabolism, because of the similarities between ketoconazole and itraconazole, concomitant administration of ONMEL and carbamazepine may inhibit the metabolism of carbamazepine. Anti-HIV Agents Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTI) such as nevirapine and efavirenz are inducers of CYP3A4. Human pharmacokinetic studies have shown that efavirenz, when concomitantly administered with itraconazole, greatly decreased serum concentrations of itraconazole and hydroxyl-itraconazole. Concomitant use of ONMEL and efavirenz is not recommended. In vivo studies have shown that nevirapine induces the metabolism of ketoconazole, significantly reducing the bioavailability of ketoconazole. Studies involving nevirapine and itraconazole have not been conducted. However, because of the similarities between ketoconazole and itraconazole, concomitant administration of ONMEL and nevirapine is not recommended. Concomitant administration of ONMEL and protease inhibitors metabolized by CYP3A4, such as indinavir, ritonavir, and saquinavir, may increase plasma concentrations of these protease inhibitors. In addition, concomitant administration of ONMEL and indinavir and ritonavir (but not saquinavir) may increase plasma concentrations of itraconazole. Caution is advised when ONMEL and protease inhibitors must be given concomitantly. Concomitant administration of ONMEL and maraviroc has been reported to increase plasma concentration of maraviroc. The dose of maraviroc should be decreased to 150 mg twice daily when given in combination with itraconazole. Antimycobacterials Drug interaction studies have demonstrated that plasma concentrations of azole antifungal agents and their metabolites, including itraconazole and hydroxyitraconazole, were significantly decreased when these agents were given concomitantly with rifabutin or rifampin. In vivo data suggest that rifabutin is metabolized in part by CYP3A4. ONMEL may inhibit the metabolism of rifabutin. Although no formal study data are available for isoniazid, similar effects should be anticipated. Therefore, the efficacy of ONMEL could be substantially reduced if given concomitantly with one of these agents and co-administration is not recommended. Antineoplastics ONMEL may inhibit the metabolism of busulfan, docetaxel, and vinca alkaloids. Antipsychotics Pimozide is known to prolong the QT interval and is partially metabolized by CYP3A4. Co-administration of pimozide with itraconazole could result in serious cardiovascular events. Therefore, concomitant administration of ONMEL and pimozide is contraindicated. [See Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5).] Increases in plasma aripiprazole concentrations have been demonstrated in subjects concomitantly receiving ketoconazole, requiring a reduction of the aripiprazole dose. Because of the similarities between ketoconazole and itraconazole, a similar dose reduction for aripiprazole is recommended when patients concomitantly receive itraconazole and aripiprazole. Benzodiazepines Concomitant administration of itraconazole and alprazolam, diazepam, oral midazolam, or triazolam could lead to increased plasma concentrations of these benzodiazepines. Increased plasma concentrations could potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects. Concomitant administration of ONMEL and oral midazolam or triazolam is contraindicated. [See Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5).] If midazolam is administered parenterally, special precaution and patient monitoring is required since the sedative effect may be prolonged. Calcium Channel Blockers Calcium channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect which may be additive to those of itraconazole; itraconazole can inhibit the metabolism of calcium channel blockers such as dihydropyridines (e.g., nifedipine, nisoldipine, and felodipine) and verapamil. Therefore, caution should be used when co-administering itraconazole and calcium channel blockers due to an increased risk of CHF. Concomitant administration of ONMEL and nisoldipine results in clinically significant increases in nisoldipine plasma concentrations, which cannot be managed by dosage reduction, therefore the concomitant administration of ONMEL and nisoldipine is contraindicated. A clinical study showed that felodipine exposure was increased by co-administration of itraconazole, resulting in approximately 6-fold increase in the AUC and 8-fold increase in the Cmax. The concomitant use of ONMEL and felodipine is contraindicated. [See Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5), Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12).] Edema has been reported in patients concomitantly receiving itraconazole and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. Appropriate dosage adjustment may be necessary. Gastric Acid Suppressors/Neutralizers Reduced plasma concentrations of itraconazole were reported when administered concomitantly with H2-receptor antagonists. Studies have shown that absorption of itraconazole is impaired when gastric acid production is decreased. ONMEL should be administered with a cola beverage if the patient has achlorhydria or is taking H2-receptor antagonists or other gastric acid suppressors. It is advised that antacids be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after administration of ONMEL. In a clinical study, when itraconazole capsules were administered with omeprazole (a proton pump inhibitor), the bioavailability of itraconazole was significantly reduced. Gastrointestinal Motility Agents Co-administration of itraconazole with cisapride can elevate plasma cisapride concentrations, which could result in serious cardiovascular events. Therefore, concomitant administration of ONMEL with cisapride is contraindicated. [See Boxed Warning, Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5).] 3-Hydroxy-3-Methyl-Glutaryl CoA-Reductase Inhibitors Human pharmacokinetic data suggest that itraconazole inhibits the metabolism of atorvastatin, cerivastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin, which may increase the risk of skeletal muscle toxicity, including rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant administration of ONMEL with 3-Hydroxy-3-Methyl-Glutaryl (HMG) CoA-Reductase inhibitors, such as lovastatin and simvastatin, is contraindicated. [See Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5).] Immunosuppressants Concomitant administration of ONMEL and cyclosporine or tacrolimus has led to increased plasma concentrations of these immunosuppressants. Similarly, concomitant administration of ONMEL and sirolimus could increase plasma concentrations of sirolimus. Monitoring of blood concentrations of cyclosporine, tacrolimus, or sirolimus are recommended when ONMEL are co-administered with these immunosuppressants and appropriate dosage adjustments should be made. Macrolide Antibiotics Erythromycin and clarithromycin are known inhibitors of CYP3A4 (See Table 3) and may increase plasma concentrations of itraconazole. Oral Hypoglycemic Agents Severe hypoglycemia has been reported in patients concomitantly receiving azole antifungal agents and oral hypoglycemic agents. A human pharmacokinetic study showed that co-administration with itraconazole and a single dose of repaglinide (on the third day of a regimen of 200 mg initial dose, twice-daily 100 mg itraconazole) resulted in a 1.4-fold higher repaglinide AUC. Blood glucose concentrations should be carefully monitored when ONMEL and oral hypoglycemic agents are co-administered. Polyenes Antifungal Agents Prior treatment with itraconazole, like other azoles, may reduce or inhibit the activity of polyenes such as amphotericin B. However, the clinical significance of this drug effect has not been clearly defined. Opiate Analgesics Levacetylmethadol (levomethadyl) and methadone are known to prolong the QT interval and are metabolized by CYP3A4. Co-administration of methadone or levacetylmethadol with itraconazole could result in serious cardiovascular events. Therefore, concomitant administration of ONMEL and methadone or levacetylmethadol are contraindicated. Fentanyl plasma concentrations could be increased or prolonged by concomitant use of itraconazole and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. In vitro data suggest that alfentanil is metabolized by CYP3A4. Administration with itraconazole may increase plasma concentrations of alfentanil. Other Elevated concentrations of ergot alkaloids can cause ergotism, i.e., a risk for vasospasm potentially leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Concomitant administration of ergot alkaloids such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine and methylergometrine (methylergonovine) with ONMEL is contraindicated. Halofantrine has the potential to prolong the QT interval at high plasma concentrations. Caution is advised when ONMEL and halofantrine are administered concomitantly. Human pharmacokinetic data suggest that concomitant administration of itraconazole and buspirone results in significant increases in plasma concentrations of buspirone. Itraconazole may inhibit the metabolism of certain glucocorticosteroids such as budesonide, dexamethasone, fluticasone and methylprednisolone. Itraconazole enhances the anticoagulant effect of coumarin-like drugs, such as warfarin. Cilostazol and eletriptan are CYP3A4 metabolized drugs that should be used with caution when co-administered with ONMEL. Co-administration of itraconazole with meloxicam decreased peak plasma concentrations and the exposure of meloxicam by 64% and 37%, respectively. Monitor patients for responses to meloxicam when itraconazole is concomitantly administered and dose adjustment should be considered if warranted. Co-administration of itraconazole with fexofenadine increased the peak plasma concentration and the total exposure of fexofenadine by approximately 3-fold and augmented its anti-histamine effects. Co-administration of itraconazole with loperamide increased peak plasma concentrations of loperamide by 3-fold and the total exposure by 3.9-fold. In addition, itraconazole is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein and may inhibit the transport of loperamide out of the brain, leading to elevated concentrations of loperamide in the brain. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of loperamide overdose, such as CNS depression, including drowsiness, dizziness and respiratory depression, and a dose or dosing frequency should be adjusted as necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Itraconazole has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with liver disease, treatment should be discontinued and liver function testing performed. The risks and benefits of itraconazole use should be reassessed. (See and and .) WARNINGS: Hepatic Effects PRECAUTIONS: Hepatotoxicity Information for Patients Adverse Events in the Treatment of Systemic Fungal Infections Adverse event data were derived from 602 patients treated for systemic fungal disease in U.S. clinical trials who were immunocompromised or receiving multiple concomitant medications. Treatment was discontinued in 10.5% of patients due to adverse events. The median duration before discontinuation of therapy was 81 days (range: 2 to 776 days). The table lists adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients. Table 2: Clinical Trials of Systemic Fungal Infections: Adverse Events Occurring with an Incidence of Greater than or Equal to 1% Body System/Adverse Event Incidence (%) (N=602) Gastrointestinal Nausea 11 Vomiting 5 Diarrhea 3 Abdominal Pain 2 Anorexia 1 Body as a Whole Edema 4 Fatigue 3 Fever 3 Malaise 1 Skin and Appendages Rash Rash tends to occur more frequently in immunocompromised patients receiving immunosuppressive medications. 9 Pruritus 3 Central/Peripheral Nervous System Headache 4 Dizziness 2 Psychiatric Libido Decreased 1 Somnolence 1 Cardiovascular Hypertension 3 Metabolic/Nutritional Hypokalemia 2 Urinary System Albuminuria 1 Liver and Biliary System Hepatic Function Abnormal 3 Reproductive System, Male Impotence 1 Adverse events infrequently reported in all studies included constipation, gastritis, depression, insomnia, tinnitus, menstrual disorder, adrenal insufficiency, gynecomastia, and male breast pain. Adverse Events Reported in Toenail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a continuous dosing regimen of 200 mg once daily for 12 consecutive weeks. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 3: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Toenail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=112) Elevated Liver Enzymes (greater than twice the upper limit of normal) 4 Gastrointestinal Disorders 4 Rash 3 Hypertension 2 Orthostatic Hypotension 1 Headache 1 Malaise 1 Myalgia 1 Vasculitis 1 Vertigo 1 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=112): headache: 10%; rhinitis: 9%; upper respiratory tract infection: 8%; sinusitis, injury: 7%; diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal pain, dizziness, rash: 4%; cystitis, urinary tract infection, liver function abnormality, myalgia, nausea: 3%; appetite increased, constipation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, pharyngitis, asthenia, fever, pain, tremor, herpes zoster, abnormal dreaming: 2%. Adverse Events Reported in Fingernail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a pulse regimen consisting of two 1-week treatment periods of 200 mg twice daily, separated by a 3-week period without drug. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 4: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Fingernail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=37) Rash/Pruritus 3 Hypertriglyceridemia 3 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=37): headache: 8%; pruritus, nausea, rhinitis: 5%; rash, bursitis, anxiety, depression, constipation, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, ulcerative stomatitis, gingivitis, hypertriglyceridemia, sinusitis, fatigue, malaise, pain, injury: 3%. Adverse Events Reported from Other Clinical Trials In addition, the following adverse drug reaction was reported in patients who participated in Itraconazole Capsules clinical trials: hyperbilirubinemia. Hepatobiliary Disorders: The following is a list of additional adverse drug reactions associated with itraconazole that have been reported in clinical trials of SPORANOX (itraconazole) Oral Solution and itraconazole IV excluding the adverse reaction term \\\\"Injection site inflammation\\\\" which is specific to the injection route of administration: (R) cardiac failure, left ventricular failure, tachycardia; Cardiac Disorders: face edema, chest pain, chills; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: hepatic failure, jaundice; Hepatobiliary Disorders: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood urea increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, urine analysis abnormal; Investigations: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesemia; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: confusional state; Psychiatric Disorders: renal impairment; Renal and Urinary Disorders: dysphonia, cough; Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: rash erythematous, hyperhidrosis; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: hypotension Vascular Disorders: Post-marketing Experience Adverse drug reactions that have been first identified during post-marketing experience with itraconazole (all formulations) are listed in the table below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, reliably estimating their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure is not always possible. Table 5: Postmarketing Reports of Adverse Drug Reactions Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Nervous System Disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia Eye Disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss Cardiac Disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Pulmonary edema, dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders: Pancreatitis, dysgeusia Hepatobiliary Disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, alopecia, photosensitivity, urticaria Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: Arthralgia Renal and Urinary Disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Erectile dysfunction General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Peripheral edema Investigations Blood creatine phosphokinase increased There is limited information on the use of itraconazole during pregnancy. Cases of congenital abnormalities including skeletal, genitourinary tract, cardiovascular and ophthalmic malformations as well as chromosomal and multiple malformations have been reported during post-marketing experience. A causal relationship with itraconazole has not been established. (See , , , and for more information.) CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Special Populations CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Itraconazole has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with liver disease, treatment should be discontinued and liver function testing performed. The risks and benefits of itraconazole use should be reassessed. (See WARNINGS: Hepatic Effects and PRECAUTIONS: Hepatotoxicity and Information for Patients.) Adverse Events in the Treatment of Systemic Fungal Infections Adverse event data were derived from 602 patients treated for systemic fungal disease in U.S. clinical trials who were immunocompromised or receiving multiple concomitant medications. Treatment was discontinued in 10.5% of patients due to adverse events. The median duration before discontinuation of therapy was 81 days (range: 2 to 776 days). The table lists adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients. Table 2: Clinical Trials of Systemic Fungal Infections: Adverse Events Occurring with an Incidence of Greater than or Equal to 1% Body System/Adverse Event Incidence (%) (N = 602) Gastrointestinal Nausea 11 Vomiting 5 Diarrhea 3 Abdominal Pain 2 Anorexia 1 Body as a Whole Edema 4 Fatigue 3 Fever 3 Malaise 1 Skin and Appendages RashRash tends to occur more frequently in immunocompromised patients receiving immunosuppressive medications. 9 Pruritus 3 Central/Peripheral Nervous System Headache 4 Dizziness 2 Psychiatric Libido Decreased 1 Somnolence 1 Cardiovascular Hypertension 3 Metabolic/Nutritional Hypokalemia 2 Urinary System Albuminuria 1 Liver and Biliary System Hepatic Function Abnormal 3 Reproductive System, Male Impotence 1 Adverse events infrequently reported in all studies included constipation, gastritis, depression, insomnia, tinnitus, menstrual disorder, adrenal insufficiency, gynecomastia, and male breast pain. Adverse Events Reported in Toenail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a continuous dosing regimen of 200 mg once daily for 12 consecutive weeks. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 3: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Toenail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N = 112) Elevated Liver Enzymes (greater than twice the upper limit of normal) 4 Gastrointestinal Disorders 4 Rash 3 Hypertension 2 Orthostatic Hypotension 1 Headache 1 Malaise 1 Myalgia 1 Vasculitis 1 Vertigo 1 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N = 112): headache: 10%; rhinitis: 9%; upper respiratory tract infection: 8%; sinusitis, injury: 7%; diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal pain, dizziness, rash: 4%; cystitis, urinary tract infection, liver function abnormality, myalgia, nausea: 3%; appetite increased, constipation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, pharyngitis, asthenia, fever, pain, tremor, herpes zoster, abnormal dreaming: 2%. Adverse Events Reported in Fingernail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a dosing regimen consisting of two 1-week treatment periods of 200 mg twice daily, separated by a 3-week period without drug. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 4: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Fingernail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N = 37) Rash/Pruritus 3 Hypertriglyceridemia 3 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N = 37): headache: 8%; pruritus, nausea, rhinitis: 5%; rash, bursitis, anxiety, depression, constipation, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, ulcerative stomatitis, gingivitis, hypertriglyceridemia, sinusitis, fatigue, malaise, pain, injury: 3%. Adverse Events Reported from Other Clinical Trials In addition, the following adverse drug reaction was reported in patients who participated in itraconazole capsules clinical trials: Hepatobiliary Disorders: hyperbilirubinemia. The following is a list of additional adverse drug reactions associated with itraconazole that have been reported in clinical trials of itraconazole oral solution and itraconazole IV excluding the adverse reaction term "injection site inflammation" which is specific to the injection route of administration: Cardiac Disorders: cardiac failure, left ventricular failure, tachycardia; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: face edema, chest pain, chills; Hepatobiliary Disorders: hepatic failure, jaundice; Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood urea increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, urine analysis abnormal; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesemia; Psychiatric Disorders: confusional state; Renal and Urinary Disorders: renal impairment; Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: dysphonia, cough; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: rash erythematous, hyperhidrosis; Vascular Disorders: hypotension Post-marketing Experience Adverse drug reactions that have been first identified during post-marketing experience with itraconazole (all formulations) are listed in the table below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, reliably estimating their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure is not always possible. Table 5: Post-marketing Reports of Adverse Drug Reactions Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Nervous System Disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tremor Eye Disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss Cardiac Disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Pulmonary edema, dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders: Pancreatitis, dysgeusia Hepatobiliary Disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, alopecia, photosensitivity, urticaria Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: Arthralgia Renal and Urinary Disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Erectile dysfunction General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Peripheral edema Investigations: Blood creatine phosphokinase increased There is limited information on the use of itraconazole during pregnancy. Cases of congenital abnormalities including skeletal, genitourinary tract, cardiovascular and ophthalmic malformations as well as chromosomal and multiple malformations have been reported during post-marketing experience. A causal relationship with itraconazole has not been established. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Special Populations, CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions for more information.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Itraconazole has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with liver disease, treatment should be discontinued and liver function testing performed. The risks and benefits of itraconazole use should be reassessed. (See WARNINGS: Hepatic Effects and PRECAUTIONS: Hepatotoxicity and Information for Patients.) Adverse Events in the Treatment of Systemic Fungal Infections Adverse event data were derived from 602 patients treated for systemic fungal disease in U.S. clinical trials who were immunocompromised or receiving multiple concomitant medications. Treatment was discontinued in 10.5% of patients due to adverse events. The median duration before discontinuation of therapy was 81 days (range: 2 to 776 days). The table lists adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients. Table 2: Clinical Trials of Systemic Fungal Infections: Adverse Events Occurring with an Incidence of Greater than or Equal to 1% Body System/Adverse Event Incidence (%) (N=602) Gastrointestinal Nausea 11 Vomiting 5 Diarrhea 3 Abdominal Pain 2 Anorexia 1 Body as a Whole Edema 4 Fatigue 3 Fever 3 Malaise 1 Skin and Appendages RashRash tends to occur more frequently in immunocompromised patients receiving immunosuppressive medications. 9 Pruritus 3 Central/Peripheral Nervous System Headache 4 Dizziness 2 Psychiatric Libido Decreased 1 Somnolence 1 Cardiovascular Hypertension 3 Metabolic/Nutritional Hypokalemia 2 Urinary System Albuminuria 1 Liver and Biliary System Hepatic Function Abnormal 3 Reproductive System, Male Impotence 1 Adverse events infrequently reported in all studies included constipation, gastritis, depression, insomnia, tinnitus, menstrual disorder, adrenal insufficiency, gynecomastia, and male breast pain. Adverse Events Reported in Toenail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a continuous dosing regimen of 200 mg once daily for 12 consecutive weeks. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 3: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Toenail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=112) Elevated Liver Enzymes (greater than twice the upper limit of normal) 4 Gastrointestinal Disorders 4 Rash 3 Hypertension 2 Orthostatic Hypotension 1 Headache 1 Malaise 1 Myalgia 1 Vasculitis 1 Vertigo 1 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=112): headache: 10%; rhinitis: 9%; upper respiratory tract infection: 8%; sinusitis, injury: 7%; diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal pain, dizziness, rash: 4%; cystitis, urinary tract infection, liver function abnormality, myalgia, nausea: 3%; appetite increased, constipation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, pharyngitis, asthenia, fever, pain, tremor, herpes zoster, abnormal dreaming: 2%. Adverse Events Reported in Fingernail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a pulse regimen consisting of two 1-week treatment periods of 200 mg twice daily, separated by a 3-week period without drug. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 4: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Fingernail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=37) Rash/Pruritus 3 Hypertriglyceridemia 3 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=37): headache: 8%; pruritus, nausea, rhinitis: 5%; rash, bursitis, anxiety, depression, constipation, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, ulcerative stomatitis, gingivitis, hypertriglyceridemia, sinusitis, fatigue, malaise, pain, injury: 3%. Adverse Events Reported from Other Clinical Trials In addition, the following adverse drug reaction was reported in patients who participated in Itraconazole Capsules clinical trials: Hepatobiliary Disorders: hyperbilirubinemia. The following is a list of additional adverse drug reactions associated with itraconazole that have been reported in clinical trials of SPORANOX(R) (itraconazole) Oral Solution and itraconazole IV excluding the adverse reaction term \\\\"Injection site inflammation\\\\" which is specific to the injection route of administration: Cardiac Disorders: cardiac failure, left ventricular failure, tachycardia; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: face edema, chest pain, chills; Hepatobiliary Disorders: hepatic failure, jaundice; Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood urea increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, urine analysis abnormal; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesemia; Psychiatric Disorders: confusional state; Renal and Urinary Disorders: renal impairment; Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: dysphonia, cough; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: rash erythematous, hyperhidrosis; Vascular Disorders: hypotension Post-marketing Experience Adverse drug reactions that have been first identified during post-marketing experience with itraconazole (all formulations) are listed in the table below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, reliably estimating their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure is not always possible. Table 5: Postmarketing Reports of Adverse Drug Reactions Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Nervous System Disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tremor Eye Disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss Cardiac Disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Pulmonary edema, dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders: Pancreatitis, dysgeusia Hepatobiliary Disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, alopecia, photosensitivity, urticaria Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: Arthralgia Renal and Urinary Disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Erectile dysfunction General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Peripheral edema Investigations: Blood creatine phosphokinase increased There is limited information on the use of itraconazole during pregnancy. Cases of congenital abnormalities including skeletal, genitourinary tract, cardiovascular and ophthalmic malformations as well as chromosomal and multiple malformations have been reported during post-marketing experience. A causal relationship with itraconazole has not been established. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Special Populations, CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions for more information.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Itraconazole has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with liver disease, treatment should be discontinued and liver function testing performed. The risks and benefits of itraconazole use should be reassessed (see WARNINGS, Hepatic Effects and PRECAUTIONS, Hepatotoxicity and Information for Patients ). Adverse Events in the Treatment of Systemic Fungal Infections Adverse event data were derived from 602 patients treated for systemic fungal disease in U.S. clinical trials who were immunocompromised or receiving multiple concomitant medications. Treatment was discontinued in 10.5% of patients due to adverse events. The median duration before discontinuation of therapy was 81 days (range: 2 to 776 days). The table lists adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients. Table 2: Clinical Trials of Systemic Fungal Infections: Adverse Events Occurring with an Incidence of Greater than or Equal to 1% Body System / Adverse Event Incidence (%) (N=602) Gastrointestinal Nausea Vomiting Diarrhea Abdominal Pain Anorexia 11 5 3 2 1 Body as a Whole Edema Fatigue Fever Malaise 4 3 3 1 Skin and Appendages RashRash tends to occur more frequently in immunocompromised patients receiving immunosuppressive medications. Pruritus 9 3 Central/Peripheral Nervous System Headache Dizziness 4 2 Psychiatric Libido Decreased Somnolence 1 1 Cardiovascular Hypertension 3 Metabolic/Nutritional Hypokalemia 2 Urinary System Albuminuria 1 Liver and Biliary System Hepatic Function Abnormal 3 Reproductive System, Male Impotence 1 Adverse events infrequently reported in all studies included constipation, gastritis, depression, insomnia, tinnitus, menstrual disorder, adrenal insufficiency, gynecomastia, and male breast pain. Adverse Events Reported in Toenail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a continuous dosing regimen of 200 mg once daily for 12 consecutive weeks. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 3: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Toenail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=112) Elevated Liver Enzymes (greater than twice the upper limit of normal) 4 Gastrointestinal Disorders 4 Rash 3 Hypertension 2 Orthostatic Hypotension 1 Headache 1 Malaise 1 Myalgia 1 Vasculitis 1 Vertigo 1 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=112): headache: 10%; rhinitis: 9%; upper respiratory tract infection: 8%; sinusitis, injury: 7%; diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal pain, dizziness, rash: 4%; cystitis, urinary tract infection, liver function abnormality, myalgia, nausea: 3%; appetite increased, constipation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, pharyngitis, asthenia, fever, pain, tremor, herpes zoster, abnormal dreaming: 2%. Adverse Events Reported in Fingernail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a pulse regimen consisting of two 1-week treatment periods of 200 mg twice daily, separated by a 3-week period without drug. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 4: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Fingernail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=37) Rash/Pruritus 3 Hypertriglyceridemia 3 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=37): headache: 8%; pruritus, nausea, rhinitis: 5%; rash, bursitis, anxiety, depression, constipation, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, ulcerative stomatitis, gingivitis, hypertriglyceridemia, sinusitis, fatigue, malaise, pain, injury: 3%. Adverse Events Reported from Other Clinical Trials In addition, the following adverse drug reaction was reported in patients who participated in intraconazole capsules clinical trials: Hepatobiliary Disorders: hyperbilirubinemia. The following is a list of additional adverse drug reactions associated with itraconazole that have been reported in clinical trials of itraconazole oral solution and itraconazole IV excluding the adverse reaction term \\\\"Injection site inflammation\\\\" which is specific to the injection route of administration: Cardiac Disorders: cardiac failure, left ventricular failure, tachycardia; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: face edema, chest pain, chills; Hepatobiliary Disorders: hepatic failure, jaundice; Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood urea increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, urine analysis abnormal; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesemia; Psychiatric Disorders: confusional state; Renal and Urinary Disorders: renal impairment; Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: dysphonia, cough; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: rash erythematous, hyperhidrosis; Vascular Disorders: hypotension Post-Marketing Experience Adverse drug reactions that have been first identified during post-marketing experience with itraconazole (all formulations) are listed in the table below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, reliably estimating their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure is not always possible. Table 5: Post-Marketing Reports of Adverse Drug Reactions Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Nervous System Disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tremor Eye Disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss Cardiac Disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Pulmonary edema, dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders: Pancreatitis, dysgeusia Hepatobiliary Disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, alopecia, photosensitivity, urticaria Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: Arthralgia Renal and Urinary Disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Erectile dysfunction General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Peripheral edema Investigations: Blood creatine phosphokinase increased There is limited information on the use of itraconazole during pregnancy. Cases of congenital abnormalities including skeletal, genitourinary tract, cardiovascular and ophthalmic malformations as well as chromosomal and multiple malformations have been reported during post-marketing experience. A causal relationship with itraconazole has not been established (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Special Populations ; CONTRAINDICATIONS; WARNINGS ; and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for more information)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. SPORANOX(R) has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with liver disease, treatment should be discontinued and liver function testing performed. The risks and benefits of SPORANOX(R) use should be reassessed. (See WARNINGS: Hepatic Effects and PRECAUTIONS: Hepatotoxicity and Information for Patients.) Adverse Events in the Treatment of Systemic Fungal Infections Adverse event data were derived from 602 patients treated for systemic fungal disease in U.S. clinical trials who were immunocompromised or receiving multiple concomitant medications. Treatment was discontinued in 10.5% of patients due to adverse events. The median duration before discontinuation of therapy was 81 days (range: 2 to 776 days). The table lists adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients. Table 2: Clinical Trials of Systemic Fungal Infections: Adverse Events Occurring with an Incidence of Greater than or Equal to 1% Body System/Adverse Event Incidence (%) (N=602) Gastrointestinal Nausea 11 Vomiting 5 Diarrhea 3 Abdominal Pain 2 Anorexia 1 Body as a Whole Edema 4 Fatigue 3 Fever 3 Malaise 1 Skin and Appendages RashRash tends to occur more frequently in immunocompromised patients receiving immunosuppressive medications. 9 Pruritus 3 Central/Peripheral Nervous System Headache 4 Dizziness 2 Psychiatric Libido Decreased 1 Somnolence 1 Cardiovascular Hypertension 3 Metabolic/Nutritional Hypokalemia 2 Urinary System Albuminuria 1 Liver and Biliary System Hepatic Function Abnormal 3 Reproductive System, Male Impotence 1 Adverse events infrequently reported in all studies included constipation, gastritis, depression, insomnia, tinnitus, menstrual disorder, adrenal insufficiency, gynecomastia, and male breast pain. Adverse Events Reported in Toenail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a continuous dosing regimen of 200 mg once daily for 12 consecutive weeks. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 3: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Toenail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=112) Elevated Liver Enzymes (greater than twice the upper limit of normal) 4 Gastrointestinal Disorders 4 Rash 3 Hypertension 2 Orthostatic Hypotension 1 Headache 1 Malaise 1 Myalgia 1 Vasculitis 1 Vertigo 1 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=112): headache: 10%; rhinitis: 9%; upper respiratory tract infection: 8%; sinusitis, injury: 7%; diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal pain, dizziness, rash: 4%; cystitis, urinary tract infection, liver function abnormality, myalgia, nausea: 3%; appetite increased, constipation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, pharyngitis, asthenia, fever, pain, tremor, herpes zoster, abnormal dreaming: 2%. Adverse Events Reported in Fingernail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a pulse regimen consisting of two 1-week treatment periods of 200 mg twice daily, separated by a 3-week period without drug. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Table 4: Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Fingernail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=37) Rash/Pruritus 3 Hypertriglyceridemia 3 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=37): headache: 8%; pruritus, nausea, rhinitis: 5%; rash, bursitis, anxiety, depression, constipation, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, ulcerative stomatitis, gingivitis, hypertriglyceridemia, sinusitis, fatigue, malaise, pain, injury: 3%. Adverse Events Reported from Other Clinical Trials In addition, the following adverse drug reaction was reported in patients who participated in SPORANOX(R) Capsules clinical trials: Hepatobiliary Disorders: hyperbilirubinemia. The following is a list of additional adverse drug reactions associated with itraconazole that have been reported in clinical trials of SPORANOX(R) Oral Solution and itraconazole IV excluding the adverse reaction term \\\\"Injection site inflammation\\\\" which is specific to the injection route of administration: Cardiac Disorders: cardiac failure, left ventricular failure, tachycardia; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: face edema, chest pain, chills; Hepatobiliary Disorders: hepatic failure, jaundice; Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood urea increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, urine analysis abnormal; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesemia; Psychiatric Disorders: confusional state; Renal and Urinary Disorders: renal impairment; Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: dysphonia, cough; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: rash erythematous, hyperhidrosis; Vascular Disorders: hypotension Post-marketing Experience Adverse drug reactions that have been first identified during post-marketing experience with SPORANOX(R) (all formulations) are listed in the table below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, reliably estimating their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure is not always possible. Table 5: Postmarketing Reports of Adverse Drug Reactions Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Nervous System Disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tremor Eye Disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss Cardiac Disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Pulmonary edema, dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders: Pancreatitis, dysgeusia Hepatobiliary Disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, alopecia, photosensitivity, urticaria Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: Arthralgia Renal and Urinary Disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Erectile dysfunction General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Peripheral edema Investigations: Blood creatine phosphokinase increased There is limited information on the use of SPORANOX(R) during pregnancy. Cases of congenital abnormalities including skeletal, genitourinary tract, cardiovascular and ophthalmic malformations as well as chromosomal and multiple malformations have been reported during post-marketing experience. A causal relationship with SPORANOX(R) has not been established. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Special Populations, CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions for more information.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. SPORANOX(R) has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with liver disease, treatment should be discontinued and liver function testing performed. The risks and benefits of SPORANOX(R) use should be reassessed. (See WARNINGS: Hepatic Effects and PRECAUTIONS: Hepatotoxicity and Information for Patients.) Adverse Events Reported in Oropharyngeal or Esophageal Candidiasis Trials U.S. adverse experience data are derived from 350 immunocompromised patients (332 HIV seropositive/AIDS) treated for oropharyngeal or esophageal candidiasis. Table 2 below lists adverse events reported by at least 2% of patients treated with SPORANOX(R) Oral Solution in U.S. clinical trials. Data on patients receiving comparator agents in these trials are included for comparison. Table 2: Summary of Adverse Events Reported by >=2% of SPORANOX(R) Treated Patients in U.S. Clinical Trials (Total) Body System/ Adverse Event Itraconazole Total (n = 350Of the 350 patients, 209 were treated for oropharyngeal candidiasis in controlled studies, 63 were treated for esophageal candidiasis in controlled studies and 78 were treated for oropharyngeal candidiasis in an open study.) % All controlled studies (n = 272) % Fluconazole (n = 125Of the 125 patients, 62 were treated for oropharyngeal candidiasis and 63 were treated for esophageal candidiasis. ) % Clotrimazole (n = 81All 81 patients were treated for oropharyngeal candidiasis.) % Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 11 10 11 5 Diarrhea 11 10 10 4 Vomiting 7 6 8 1 Abdominal pain 6 4 7 7 Constipation 2 2 1 0 Body as a whole Fever 7 6 8 5 Chest pain 3 3 2 0 Pain 2 2 4 0 Fatigue 2 1 2 0 Respiratory disorders Coughing 4 4 10 0 Dyspnea 2 3 5 1 Pneumonia 2 2 0 0 Sinusitis 2 2 4 0 Sputum increased 2 3 3 1 Skin and appendages disorders Rash 4 5 4 6 Increased sweating 3 4 6 1 Skin disorder unspecified 2 2 2 1 Central/peripheral nervous system Headache 4 4 6 6 Dizziness 2 2 4 1 Resistance mechanism disorders Pneumocystis carinii infection 2 2 2 0 Psychiatric disorders Depression 2 1 0 1 Adverse events reported by less than 2% of patients in U.S. clinical trials with SPORANOX(R) included: adrenal insufficiency, asthenia, back pain, dehydration, dyspepsia, dysphagia, flatulence, gynecomastia, hematuria, hemorrhoids, hot flushes, implantation complication, infection unspecified, injury, insomnia, male breast pain, myalgia, pharyngitis, pruritus, rhinitis, rigors, stomatitis ulcerative, taste perversion, tinnitus, upper respiratory tract infection, vision abnormal, and weight decrease. Edema, hypokalemia and menstrual disorders have been reported in clinical trials with itraconazole capsules. Adverse Events Reported from Other Clinical Trials A comparative clinical trial in patients who received intravenous itraconazole followed by SPORANOX(R) Oral Solution or received Amphotericin B reported the following adverse events in the itraconazole intravenous/SPORANOX(R) Oral Solution treatment arm which are not listed above in the subsection \\\\"Adverse Events Reported in Oropharnyngeal or Esophageal Candidiasis Trials\\\\" or listed below as postmarketing reports of adverse drug reactions: serum creatinine increased, blood urea nitrogen increased, renal function abnormal, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, hypotension, tachycardia and pulmonary infiltration. In addition, the following adverse drug reactions were reported in patients who participated in SPORANOX(R) Oral Solution clinical trials: Cardiac Disorders: cardiac failure; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: edema; Hepatobiliary Disorders: hepatic failure, hyperbilirubinemia; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: hypokalemia; Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: menstrual disorder The following is a list of additional adverse drug reactions associated with itraconazole that have been reported in clinical trials of SPORANOX(R) Capsules and itraconazole IV excluding the adverse reaction term \\\\"Injection site inflammation\\\\" which is specific to the injection route of administration: Cardiac Disorders: left ventricular failure; Gastrointestinal Disorders: gastrointestinal disorder; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: face edema; Hepatobiliary Disorders: jaundice, hepatic function abnormal; Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, urine analysis abnormal; Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia; Nervous System Disorders: somnolence; Psychiatric Disorders: confusional state; Renal and Urinary Disorders: renal impairment; Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: dysphonia; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: rash erythematous; Vascular Disorders: hypertension In addition, the following adverse drug reaction was reported in children only who participated in SPORANOX(R) Oral Solution clinical trials: mucosal inflammation. Post-marketing Experience Adverse drug reactions that have been first identified during post-marketing experience with SPORANOX(R) (all formulations) are listed in the table below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, reliably estimating their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure is not always possible. Table 3: Postmarketing Reports of Adverse Drug Reactions Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune System Disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hypertriglyceridemia Nervous System Disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tremor Eye Disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss Cardiac Disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal Disorders: Pancreatitis Hepatobiliary Disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis, reversible increases in hepatic enzymes Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, alopecia, photosensitivity, urticaria Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: Arthralgia Renal and Urinary Disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Erectile dysfunction General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Peripheral edema Investigations: Blood creatine phosphokinase increased There is limited information on the use of SPORANOX(R) during pregnancy. Cases of congenital abnormalities including skeletal, genitourinary tract, cardiovascular and ophthalmic malformations as well as chromosomal and multiple malformations have been reported during post-marketing experience. A causal relationship with SPORANOX(R) has not been established. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Special Populations, CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions for more information.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SPORANOX(R) has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatotoxicity, including liver failure and death. Some of these cases had neither pre-existing liver disease nor a serious underlying medical condition. If clinical signs or symptoms develop that are consistent with liver disease, treatment should be discontinued and liver function testing performed. The risks and benefits of SPORANOX(R) use should be reassessed. (See WARNINGS: Hepatic Effects and PRECAUTIONS: Hepatotoxicity and Information for Patients.) Adverse Events in the Treatment of Systemic Fungal Infections Adverse event data were derived from 602 patients treated for systemic fungal disease in U.S. clinical trials who were immunocompromised or receiving multiple concomitant medications. Treatment was discontinued in 10.5% of patients due to adverse events. The median duration before discontinuation of therapy was 81 days (range: 2 to 776 days). The table lists adverse events reported by at least 1% of patients. Clinical Trials of Systemic Fungal Infections: Adverse Events Occurring with an Incidence of Greater than or Equal to 1% Body System/Adverse Event Incidence (%) (N=602) Gastrointestinal Nausea 11 Vomiting 5 Diarrhea 3 Abdominal Pain 2 Anorexia 1 Body as a Whole Edema 4 Fatigue 3 Fever 3 Malaise 1 Skin and Appendages RashRash tends to occur more frequently in immunocompromised patients receiving immunosuppressive medications. 9 Pruritus 3 Central/Peripheral Nervous System Headache 4 Dizziness 2 Psychiatric Libido Decreased 1 Somnolence 1 Cardiovascular Hypertension 3 Metabolic/Nutritional Hypokalemia 2 Urinary System Albuminuria 1 Liver and Biliary System Hepatic Function Abnormal 3 Reproductive System, Male Impotence 1 Adverse events infrequently reported in all studies included constipation, gastritis, depression, insomnia, tinnitus, menstrual disorder, adrenal insufficiency, gynecomastia, and male breast pain. Adverse Events Reported in Toenail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a continuous dosing regimen of 200 mg once daily for 12 consecutive weeks. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Toenail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=112) Elevated Liver Enzymes (greater than twice the upper limit of normal) 4 Gastrointestinal Disorders 4 Rash 3 Hypertension 2 Orthostatic Hypotension 1 Headache 1 Malaise 1 Myalgia 1 Vasculitis 1 Vertigo 1 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=112): headache: 10%; rhinitis: 9%; upper respiratory tract infection: 8%; sinusitis, injury: 7%; diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal pain, dizziness, rash: 4%; cystitis, urinary tract infection, liver function abnormality, myalgia, nausea: 3%; appetite increased, constipation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, pharyngitis, asthenia, fever, pain, tremor, herpes zoster, abnormal dreaming: 2%. Adverse Events Reported in Fingernail Onychomycosis Clinical Trials Patients in these trials were on a pulse regimen consisting of two 1-week treatment periods of 200 mg twice daily, separated by a 3-week period without drug. The following adverse events led to temporary or permanent discontinuation of therapy. Clinical Trials of Onychomycosis of the Fingernail: Adverse Events Leading to Temporary or Permanent Discontinuation of Therapy Adverse Event Incidence (%) Itraconazole (N=37) Rash/Pruritus 3 Hypertriglyceridemia 3 The following adverse events occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% (N=37): headache: 8%; pruritus, nausea, rhinitis: 5%; rash, bursitis, anxiety, depression, constipation, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, ulcerative stomatitis, gingivitis, hypertriglyceridemia, sinusitis, fatigue, malaise, pain, injury: 3%. Post-marketing Experience Adverse drug reactions that have been identified during post-approval use of SPORANOX(R) (all formulations) are listed in the table below. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, reliably estimating their frequency or establishing a causal relationship to drug exposure is not always possible. Postmarketing Reports of Adverse Drug Reactions Blood and lymphatic system disorders: Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia Immune system disorders: Anaphylaxis; anaphylactic, anaphylactoid and allergic reactions; serum sickness; angioneurotic edema Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Hypertriglyceridemia, hypokalemia Nervous system disorders: Peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, headache, dizziness Eye disorders: Visual disturbances, including vision blurred and diplopia Ear and labyrinth disorders: Transient or permanent hearing loss, tinnitus Cardiac disorders: Congestive heart failure Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Pulmonary edema, dyspnea Gastrointestinal disorders: Pancreatitis, abdominal pain, vomiting, dyspepsia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, dysgeusia Hepato-biliary disorders: Serious hepatotoxicity (including some cases of fatal acute liver failure), hepatitis, reversible increases in hepatic enzymes Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, exfoliative dermatitis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, erythema multiforme, alopecia, photosensitivity, rash, urticaria, pruritus Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Myalgia, arthralgia Renal and urinary disorders: Urinary incontinence, pollakiuria Reproductive system and breast disorders: Menstrual disorders, erectile dysfunction General disorders and administration site conditions: Peripheral edema, pyrexia There is limited information on the use of SPORANOX(R) during pregnancy. Cases of congenital abnormalities including skeletal, genitourinary tract, cardiovascular and ophthalmic malformations as well as chromosomal and multiple malformations have been reported during post-marketing experience. A causal relationship with SPORANOX(R) has not been established. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Special Populations, CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions for more information.)"$$
"Drug Interactions Coadministration of a number of CYP3A4 substrates are contraindicated with itraconazole. Plasma concentrations increase for the following drugs: methadone, disopyramide, dofetilide, dronedarone, quinidine, ergot alkaloids (such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine, methylergometrine (methylergonovine)), irinotecan, lurasidone, oral midazolam, pimozide, triazolam, felodipine, nisoldipine, ranolazine, eplerenone, cisapride, lovastatin, simvastatin and, in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment, colchicine. This increase in drug concentrations caused by coadministration with itraconazole, may increase or prolong both the pharmacologic effect and/or adverse reactions to these drugs. For example, increased plasma concentrations of some of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsade de pointes, a potentially fatal arrhythmia. Specific examples are listed in PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions. Itraconazole should not be administered for the treatment of onychomycosis to pregnant patients or to women contemplating pregnancy. Itraconazole is contraindicated for patients who have shown hypersensitivity to itraconazole. There is limited information regarding cross-hypersensitivity between itraconazole and other azole antifungal agents. Caution should be used when prescribing itraconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles.",$$
"Drug Interactions Coadministration of a number of CYP3A4 substrates are contraindicated with itraconazole. Plasma concentrations increase for the following drugs: methadone, disopyramide, dofetilide, dronedarone, quinidine, ergot alkaloids (such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine, methylergometrine (methylergonovine)), irinotecan, lurasidone, oral midazolam, pimozide, triazolam, felodipine, nisoldipine, ranolazine, eplerenone, cisapride, lovastatin, simvastatin, ticagrelor, and, in subjects with varying degrees of renal or hepatic impairment, colchicine, fesoterodine, telithromycin and solifenacin. (See PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions section for specific examples.)This increase in drug concentrations caused by coadministration with itraconazole may increase or prolong both the pharmacologic effect and/or adverse reactions to these drugs. For example, increased plasma concentrations of some of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsade de pointes, a potentially fatal arrhythmia. Specific examples are listed in PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions. Itraconazole should not be administered for the treatment of onychomycosis to pregnant patients or to women contemplating pregnancy. Itraconazole is contraindicated for patients who have shown hypersensitivity to itraconazole. There is limited information regarding cross-hypersensitivity between itraconazole and other azole antifungal agents. Caution should be used when prescribing itraconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles.",$$
"Drug Interactions Coadministration of a number of CYP3A4 substrates are contraindicated with itraconazole. Plasma concentrations increase for the following drugs: methadone, disopyramide, dofetilide, dronedarone, quinidine, ergot alkaloids (such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine, methylergometrine (methylergonovine)), irinotecan, lurasidone, oral midazolam, pimozide, triazolam, felodipine, nisoldipine, ranolazine, eplerenone, cisapride, lovastatin, simvastatin, ticagrelor, and, in subjects with varying degrees of renal or hepatic impairment, colchicine, fesoterodine, telithromycin and solifenacin. (See PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions Section for specific examples.) This increase in drug concentrations caused by coadministration with itraconazole, may increase or prolong both the pharmacologic effect and/or adverse reactions to these drugs. For example, increased plasma concentrations of some of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsade de pointes, a potentially fatal arrhythmia. Specific examples are listed in PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions. Itraconazole should not be administered for the treatment of onychomycosis to pregnant patients or to women contemplating pregnancy. Itraconazole is contraindicated for patients who have shown hypersensitivity to itraconazole. There is limited information regarding cross-hypersensitivity between itraconazole and other azole antifungal agents. Caution should be used when prescribing itraconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles.",$$
"Drug Interactions Coadministration of the following drugs are contraindicated with SPORANOX(R) Oral Solution: methadone, disopyramide, dofetilide, dronedarone, quinidine, ergot alkaloids (such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine, methylergometrine (methylergonovine)), irinotecan, lurasidone, oral midazolam, pimozide, triazolam, felodipine, nisoldipine, ranolazine, eplerenone, cisapride, lovastatin, simvastatin, ticagrelor, and, in subjects with varying degrees of renal or hepatic impairment, colchicine, fesoterodine, telithromycin and solifenacin. See PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions Section for specific examples. Coadministration with itraconazole can cause elevated plasma concentrations of these drugs and may increase or prolong both the pharmacologic effects and/or adverse reactions to these drugs. For example, increased plasma concentrations of some of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsades de pointes, a potentially fatal arrhythmia. See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS Sections, and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions Section for specific examples.",$$
"Drug Interactions Concomitant administration of SPORANOX(R) (itraconazole) Capsules or Oral Solution and certain drugs metabolized by the cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme system (CYP3A4) may result in increased plasma concentrations of those drugs, leading to potentially serious and/or life-threatening adverse events. Cisapride, oral midazolam, nisoldipine, felodipine, pimozide, quinidine, dofetilide, triazolam, methadone and levacetylmethadol (levomethadyl) are contraindicated with SPORANOX(R). HMG CoA-reductase inhibitors metabolized by CYP3A4, such as lovastatin and simvastatin, are also contraindicated with SPORANOX(R). Ergot alkaloids metabolized by CYP3A4 such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine and methylergometrine (methylergonovine) are contraindicated with SPORANOX(R). (See BOX WARNING, and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions.) SPORANOX(R) should not be administered for the treatment of onychomycosis to pregnant patients or to women contemplating pregnancy. SPORANOX(R) is contraindicated for patients who have shown hypersensitivity to itraconazole or its excipients. There is no information regarding cross-hypersensitivity between itraconazole and other azole antifungal agents. Caution should be used when prescribing SPORANOX(R) to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles.",$$
"Drug Interactions Itraconazole is mainly metabolized through CYP3A4. Other drugs that either share this metabolic pathway or modify CYP3A4 activity may influence the pharmacokinetics of itraconazole. Similarly, itraconazole may modify the pharmacokinetics of other drugs that share this metabolic pathway. Itraconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-glycoprotein inhibitor. When using concomitant medication, it is recommended that the corresponding label be consulted for information on the route of metabolism and the possible need to adjust dosages. Drugs that may decrease itraconazole plasma concentrations Drugs that reduce the gastric acidity (e.g. acid neutralizing medicines such as aluminum hydroxide, or acid secretion suppressors such as H2-receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors) impair the absorption of itraconazole from itraconazole capsules. It is recommended that these drugs be used with caution when coadministered with itraconazole capsules: -It is recommended that itraconazole capsules be administered with an acidic beverage (such as non-diet cola) upon co-treatment with drugs reducing gastric acidity. -It is recommended that acid neutralizing medicines (e.g. aluminum hydroxide) be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after the intake of itraconazole capsules. -Upon coadministration, it is recommended that the antifungal activity be monitored and the itraconazole dose increased as deemed necessary. Coadministration of itraconazole with potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the bioavailability of itraconazole and hydroxy-itraconazole to such an extent that efficacy may be reduced. Examples include: -Antibacterials: isoniazid, rifabutin (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole'), rifampicin -Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine, (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole'), phenobarbital, phenytoin -Antivirals: efavirenz, nevirapine Therefore, administration of potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 with itraconazole is not recommended. It is recommended that the use of these drugs be avoided from 2 weeks before and during treatment with itraconazole, unless the benefits outweigh the risk of potentially reduced itraconazole efficacy. Upon coadministration, it is recommended that the antifungal activity be monitored and the itraconazole dose increased as deemed necessary. Drugs that may increase itraconazole plasma concentrations Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 may increase the bioavailability of itraconazole. Examples include: -Antibacterials: ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, erythromycin -Antivirals: ritonavir-boosted darunavir, ritonavir-boosted fosamprenavir, indinavir (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole'), ritonavir (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole'), and telaprevir. It is recommended that these drugs be used with caution when coadministered with itraconazole capsules. It is recommended that patients who must take itraconazole concomitantly with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of itraconazole, and the itraconazole dose be decreased as deemed necessary. Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole Itraconazole and its major metabolite, hydroxy-itraconazole, can inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 and can inhibit the drug transport by P-glycoprotein, which may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and/or their active metabolite(s) when they are administered with itraconazole. These elevated plasma concentrations may increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of these drugs. CYP3A4-metabolized drugs known to prolong the QT interval may be contraindicated with itraconazole, since the combination may lead to ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsade de pointes, a potentially fatal arrhythmia. Once treatment is stopped, itraconazole plasma concentrations decrease to an almost undetectable concentration within 7 to 14 days, depending on the dose and duration of treatment. In patients with hepatic cirrhosis or in subjects receiving CYP3A4 inhibitors, the decline in plasma concentrations may be even more gradual. This is particularly important when initiating therapy with drugs whose metabolism is affected by itraconazole. Examples of drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole presented by drug class with advice regarding coadministration with itraconazole: Table 1: Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole Drug Class Contraindicated Not Recommended Use with Caution Comments Under no circumstances is the drug to be coadministered with itraconazole , and up to two weeks after discontinuation of treatment with itraconazole . It is recommended that the use of the drug be avoided during and up to two weeks after discontinuation of treatment with itraconazole , unless the benefits outweigh the potentially increased risks of side effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided, clinical monitoring for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged effects or side effects of the interacting drug is recommended, and its dosage be reduced or interrupted as deemed necessary. When appropriate, it is recommended that plasma concentrations be measured. The label of the coadministered drug should be consulted for information on dose adjustment and adverse effects. Careful monitoring is recommended when the drug is coadministered with itraconazole . Upon coadministration , it is recommended that patients be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged effects or side effects of the interacting drug, and its dosage be reduced as deemed necessary. When appropriate, it is recommended that plasma concentrations be measured. The label of the coadministered drug should be consulted for information on dose adjustment and adverse effects. Alpha Blockers tamsulosin Analgesics methadone alfentanil, buprenorphine IV and sublingual, fentanyl, oxycodone, sufentanil Methadone: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of methadone when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes. Fentanyl: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of fentanyl when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of potentially fatal respiratory depression. Sufentanil : No human pharmacokinetic data of an interaction with itraconazole are available. In vitro data suggest that sufentanil is metabolized by CYP3A4 and so potentially increased sufentanil plasma concentrations would be expected when coadministered with itraconazole. Antiarrhythmics disopyramide, dofetilide, dronedarone, quinidine digoxin Disopyramide , dofetilide , dronedarone , quinidine: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of these drugs when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation. Antibacterials telithromycin, in subjects with severe renal impairment or severe hepatic impairment rifabutin telithromycin Telithromycin : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of telithromycin in subjects with severe renal impairment or severe hepatic impairment, when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Rifabutin : See also under 'Drugs that may decrease itraconazole plasma concentrations'. Anticoagulants and Antiplatelet Drugs ticagrelor apixaban, rivaroxaban coumarins, cilostazol, dabigatran Ticagrelor : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ticagrelor may increase the risk of bleeding. Coumarins : Itraconazole may enhance the anticoagulant effect of coumarin-like drugs, such as warfarin. Anticonvulsants carbamazepine Carbamazepine: In vivo studies have demonstrated an increase in plasma carbamazepine concentrations in subjects concomitantly receiving ketoconazole. Although there are no data regarding the effect of itraconazole on carbamazepine metabolism, because of the similarities between ketoconazole and itraconazole, concomitant administration of itraconazole and carbamazepine may inhibit the metabolism of carbamazepine. See also under 'Drugs that may decrease itraconazole plasma concentrations'. Antidiabetics repaglinide, saxagliptin Antihelmintics and Antiprotozoals praziquantel Antimigraine Drugs ergot alkaloids, such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine, methylergometrine (methylergonovine) eletriptan Ergot Alkaloids: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of ergotism, i.e., a risk for vasospasm potentially leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Antineoplastics irinotecan axitnib, dabrafenib, dasatinib, ibrutinib, nilotinib, sunitinib bortezomib, busulphan, docetaxel, erlotinib, imatinib, ixabepilone, lapatinib, ponatinib, trimetrexate, vinca alkaloids Irinotecan: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of irinotecan when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of potentially fatal adverse events. Antipsychotics, Anxiolytics and Hypnotics lurasidone, oral midazolam, pimozide, triazolam alprazolam, aripiprazole, buspirone, diazepam, haloperidol, midazolam IV, perospirone, quetiapine, ramelteon, risperidone Midazolam, triazolam: Coadministration of itraconazole and oral midazolam, or triazolam may cause several-fold increases in plasma concentrations of these drugs. This may potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects, especially with repeated dosing or chronic administration of these agents. Pimozide : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of pimozide when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes. Antivirals simeprevir maraviroc, indinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir Indinavir , ritonavir: See also under 'Drugs that may increase itraconazole plasma concentrations'. Beta Blockers nadolol Calcium Channel Blockers felodipine, nisoldipine other dihydropyridines, verapamil Calcium channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect which may be additive to those of itraconazole. The potential increase in plasma concentrations of calcium channel blockers when co-administered with itraconazole may increase the risk of congestive heart failure. Dihydropyridines : Concomitant administration of itraconazole may cause several-fold increases in plasma concentrations of dihydropyridines. Edema has been reported in patients concomitantly receiving itraconazole and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. Cardiovascular Drugs, Miscellaneous ranolazine aliskiren, sildenafil, for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension bosentan, riociguat Ranolazine : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ranolazine when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation. Diuretics eplerenone Eplerenone : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of eplerenone when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of hyperkalemia and hypotension. Gastrointestinal Drugs cisapride aprepitant Cisapride : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of cisapride when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation. Immunosuppressants everolimus, temsirolimus budesonide, ciclesonide, cyclosporine, dexamethasone, fluticasone, methylprednisolone, rapamycin (also known as sirolimus), tacrolimus Lipid Regulating Drugs lovastatin, simvastatin atorvastatin The potential increase in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of skeletal muscle toxicity, including rhabdomyolysis. Respiratory Drugs salmeterol Urological Drugs fesoterodine, in subjects with moderate to severe renal impairment, or moderate to severe hepatic impairment, solifenacin, in subjects with severe renal impairment or moderate to severe hepatic impairment darifenacin, vardenafil fesoterodine, oxybutynin, sildenafil, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, solifenacin, tadalafil, tolterodine Fesoterodine : The potential increase in plasma concentrations of the fesoterodine active metabolite may be greater in subjects with moderate to severe renal impairment, or moderate to severe hepatic impairment, which may lead to an increased risk of adverse reactions. Solifenacin: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of solifenacin in subjects with severe renal impairment or moderate to severe hepatic impairment, when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation. Other colchicine, in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment colchicine, conivaptan, tolvaptan cinacalcet Colchicine: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of colchicine when coadministered with itraconazole may increase the risk of potentially fatal adverse events. Conivaptan and Tolvaptan : A safe and effective dose of either conivaptan or tolvaptan has not been established when coadministered with itraconazole. Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations decreased by itraconazole Coadministration of itraconazole with the NSAID meloxicam may decrease the plasma concentration of meloxicam. It is recommended that meloxicam be used with caution when coadministered with itraconazole, and its effects or side effects be monitored. It is recommended that the dosage of meloxicam, if coadministered with itraconazole, be adjusted if necessary. Pediatric Population Interaction studies have only been performed in adults."$$
"Drug Interactions Itraconazole is mainly metabolized through CYP3A4. Other drugs that either share this metabolic pathway or modify CYP3A4 activity may influence the pharmacokinetics of itraconazole. Similarly, itraconazole may modify the pharmacokinetics of other drugs that share this metabolic pathway. Itraconazole is a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and a P-glycoprotein inhibitor. When using concomitant medication, it is recommended that the corresponding label be consulted for information on the route of metabolism and the possible need to adjust dosages. Drugs that may decrease itraconazole plasma concentrations Drugs that reduce the gastric acidity (e.g. acid neutralizing medicines such as aluminum hydroxide, or acid secretion suppressors such as H2-receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors) impair the absorption of itraconazole from itraconazole capsules. It is recommended that these drugs be used with caution when coadministered with itraconazole capsules: It is recommended that itraconazole capsules be administered with an acidic beverage (such as non-diet cola) upon co-treatment with drugs reducing gastric acidity. It is recommended that acid neutralizing medicines (e.g. aluminum hydroxide) be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after the intake of SPORANOX(R) Capsules. Upon coadministration, it is recommended that the antifungal activity be monitored and the itraconazole dose increased as deemed necessary. Coadministration of itraconazole with potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the bioavailability of itraconazole and hydroxy-itraconazole to such an extent that efficacy may be reduced. Examples include: Antibacterials: isoniazid, rifabutin (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole'), rifampicin Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine, (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole'), phenobarbital, phenytoin Antivirals: efavirenz, nevirapine Therefore, administration of potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 with itraconazole is not recommended. It is recommended that the use of these drugs be avoided from 2 weeks before and during treatment with itraconazole, unless the benefits outweigh the risk of potentially reduced itraconazole efficacy. Upon coadministration, it is recommended that the antifungal activity be monitored and the itraconazole dose increased as deemed necessary. Drugs that may increase itraconazole plasma concentrations Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 may increase the bioavailability of itraconazole. Examples include: Antibacterials: ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, erythromycin Antivirals: ritonavir-boosted darunavir, ritonavir-boosted fosamprenavir, indinavir (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole'), ritonavir (see also under 'Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole') and telaprevir. It is recommended that these drugs be used with caution when coadministered with itraconazole capsules. It is recommended that patients who must take itraconazole concomitantly with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of itraconazole, and the itraconazole dose be decreased as deemed necessary. Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole Itraconazole and its major metabolite, hydroxy-itraconazole, can inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 and can inhibit the drug transport by P-glycoprotein, which may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and/or their active metabolite(s) when they are administered with itraconazole. These elevated plasma concentrations may increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of these drugs. CYP3A4-metabolized drugs known to prolong the QT interval may be contraindicated with itraconazole, since the combination may lead to ventricular tachyarrhythmias including occurrences of torsade de pointes, a potentially fatal arrhythmia. Once treatment is stopped, itraconazole plasma concentrations decrease to an almost undetectable concentration within 7 to 14 days, depending on the dose and duration of treatment. In patients with hepatic cirrhosis or in subjects receiving CYP3A4 inhibitors, the decline in plasma concentrations may be even more gradual. This is particularly important when initiating therapy with drugs whose metabolism is affected by itraconazole. Examples of drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole presented by drug class with advice regarding coadministration with itraconazole: Table 1: Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations increased by itraconazole Drug Class Contraindicated Not Recommended Use with Caution Comments Under no circumstances is the drug to be coadministered with itraconazole, and up to two weeks after discontinuation of treatment with itraconazole. It is recommended that the use of the drug be avoided during and up to two weeks after discontinuation of treatment with itraconazole, unless the benefits outweigh the potentially increased risks of side effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided, clinical monitoring for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged effects or side effects of the interacting drug is recommended, and its dosage be reduced or interrupted as deemed necessary. When appropriate, it is recommended that plasma concentrations be measured. The label of the coadministered drug should be consulted for information on dose adjustment and adverse effects. Careful monitoring is recommended when the drug is coadministered with itraconazole. Upon coadministration, it is recommended that patients be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged effects or side effects of the interacting drug, and its dosage be reduced as deemed necessary. When appropriate, it is recommended that plasma concentrations be measured. The label of the coadministered drug should be consulted for information on dose adjustment and adverse effects. Alpha Blockers tamsulosin Analgesics methadone alfentanil, buprenorphine IV and sublingual, fentanyl, oxycodone, sufentanil Methadone: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of methadone when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes. Fentanyl: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of fentanyl when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of potentially fatal respiratory depression. Sufentanil: No human pharmacokinetic data of an interaction with itraconazole are available. In vitro data suggest that sufentanil is metabolized by CYP3A4 and so potentially increased sufentanil plasma concentrations would be expected when coadministered with SPORANOX(R). Antiarrhythmics disopyramide, dofetilide, dronedarone, quinidine digoxin Disopyramide, dofetilide, dronedarone, quinidine: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of these drugs when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation. Antibacterials telithromycin, in subjects with severe renal impairment or severe hepatic impairment rifabutin telithromycin Telithromycin: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of telithromycin in subjects with severe renal impairment or severe hepatic impairment, when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes. Rifabutin: See also under 'Drugs that may decrease itraconazole plasma concentrations'. Anticoagulants and Antiplatelet Drugs ticagrelor apixaban, rivaroxaban coumarins, cilostazol, dabigatran Ticagrelor: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ticagrelor may increase the risk of bleeding. Coumarins: SPORANOX(R) may enhance the anticoagulant effect of coumarin-like drugs, such as warfarin. Anticonvulsants carbamazepine Carbamazepine: In vivo studies have demonstrated an increase in plasma carbamazepine concentrations in subjects concomitantly receiving ketoconazole. Although there are no data regarding the effect of itraconazole on carbamazepine metabolism, because of the similarities between ketoconazole and itraconazole, concomitant administration of SPORANOX(R) and carbamazepine may inhibit the metabolism of carbamazepine. See also under 'Drugs that may decrease itraconazole plasma concentrations'. Antidiabetics repaglinide, saxagliptin Antihelmintics and Antiprotozoals praziquantel Antimigraine Drugs ergot alkaloids, such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine, methylergometrine (methylergonovine) eletriptan Ergot Alkaloids: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of ergotism, ie. a risk for vasospasm potentially leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Antineoplastics irinotecan axitinib, dabrafenib, dasatinib, ibrutinib, nilotinib, sunitinib bortezomib, busulphan, docetaxel, erlotinib, imatinib, ixabepilone, lapatinib, ponatinib, trimetrexate, vinca alkaloids Irinotecan: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of irinotecan when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of potentially fatal adverse events. Antipsychotics, Anxiolytics and Hypnotics lurasidone, oral midazolam, pimozide, triazolam alprazolam, aripiprazole, buspirone, diazepam, haloperidol, midazolam IV, perospirone, quetiapine, ramelteon, risperidone Midazolam, triazolam: Coadministration of SPORANOX(R) and oral midazolam, or triazolam may cause several-fold increases in plasma concentrations of these drugs. This may potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects, especially with repeated dosing or chronic administration of these agents. Pimozide: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of pimozide when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes. Antivirals simeprevir maraviroc, indinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir Indinavir, ritonavir: See also under 'Drugs that may increase itraconazole plasma concentrations'. Beta Blockers nadolol Calcium Channel Blockers felodipine, nisoldipine other dihydropyridines, verapamil Calcium channel blockers can have a negative inotropic effect which may be additive to those of itraconazole. The potential increase in plasma concentrations of calcium channel blockers when co-administered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of congestive heart failure. Dihydropyridines: Concomitant administration of SPORANOX(R) may cause several-fold increases in plasma concentrations of dihydropyridines. Edema has been reported in patients concomitantly receiving SPORANOX(R) and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. Cardiovascular Drugs, Miscellaneous ranolazine aliskiren, sildenafil, for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension bosentan, riociguat Ranolazine: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of ranolazine when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation. Diuretics eplerenone Eplerenone: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of eplerenone when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of hyperkalemia and hypotension. Gastrointestinal Drugs cisapride aprepitant Cisapride: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of cisapride when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QTc prolongation. Immunosuppressants everolimus, temsirolimus budesonide, ciclesonide, cyclosporine, dexamethasone, fluticasone, methylprednisolone, rapamycin (also known as sirolimus), tacrolimus Lipid Regulating Drugs lovastatin, simvastatin atorvastatin The potential increase in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of skeletal muscle toxicity, including rhabdomyolysis. Respiratory Drugs salmeterol Urological Drugs fesoterodine, in subjects with moderate to severe renal impairment, or moderate to severe hepatic impairment, solifenacin, in subjects with severe renal impairment or moderate to severe hepatic impairment darifenacin, vardenafil fesoterodine. oxybutynin, sildenafil, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, solifenacin, tadalafil, tolterodine Fesoterodine: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of the fesoterodine active metabolite may be greater in subjects with moderate to severe renal impairment, or moderate to severe hepatic impairment, which may lead to an increased risk of adverse reactions. Solifenacin: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of solifenacin in subjects with severe renal impairment or moderate to severe hepatic impairment, when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation. Other colchicine, in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment colchicine, conivaptan, tolvaptan cinacalcet Colchicine: The potential increase in plasma concentrations of colchicine when coadministered with SPORANOX(R) may increase the risk of potentially fatal adverse events. Conivaptan and Tolvaptan: A safe and effective dose of either conivaptan or tolvaptan has not been established when coadministered with SPORANOX(R). Drugs that may have their plasma concentrations decreased by itraconazole Coadministration of itraconazole with the NSAID meloxicam may decrease the plasma concentration of meloxicam. It is recommended that meloxicam be used with caution when coadministered with itraconazole, and its effects or side effects be monitored. It is recommended that the dosage of meloxicam, if coadministered with itraconazole, be adjusted if necessary. Pediatric Population Interaction studies have only been performed in adults."$$
