"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop. (5.3) Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure. (5.4, 7) Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of SPRIX in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure. (5.5) Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of SPRIX in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function. (5.6) Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. (5.7) Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity). (5.8) Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue SPRIX at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity. (5.9) Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation. (5.10, 8.1) Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia. Do not use SPRIX in patients for whom hemostasis is critical. (5.11, 7) Limitations of Use: SPRIX should not be used concomitantly with IM/IV or oral ketorolac, aspirin, or other NSAIDs. (5.15) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as ketorolac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4)]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of SPRIX in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If SPRIX is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with active peptic ulcers and/or GI bleeding and in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation [see Contraindications (4)]. NSAIDs, including ketorolac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Do not use Sprix in those with active GI bleeding, Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue SPRIX until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Use great care when giving SPRIX to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. 5.3 Hepatotoxicity Elevations of ALT or AST (three or more times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) have been reported in approximately 1% of NSAID-treated patients in clinical trials. In addition, rare, sometimes fatal, cases of severe hepatic injury, including fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis, and hepatic failure have been reported. Elevations of ALT or AST (less than three times ULN) may occur in up to 15% of patients treated with NSAIDs including ketorolac. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue SPRIX immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including SPRIX, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.5 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of ketorolac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of SPRIX in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If SPRIX is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. 5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Ketorolac and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys. Patients with reduced creatinine clearance will have diminished clearance of the drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with advanced renal impairment [see Contraindications (4)]. Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of SPRIX in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of SPRIX may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with preexisting renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating SPRIX. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of SPRIX [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of SPRIX in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If SPRIX is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reactions Ketorolac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to ketorolac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4)]. When SPRIX is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ketorolac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of SPRIX at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Ketorolac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including SPRIX, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.11 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with SPRIX has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. Do not use SPRIX in patients for whom hemostasis is critical [see Contraindications (4), Drug Interactions (7)]. NSAIDs, including SPRIX, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. The concurrent use of ketorolac and therapy that affects hemostasis, including prophylactic low dose heparin (2500 to 5000 units q12h), warfarin and dextrans, has not been studied extensively, but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Until data from such studies are available, carefully weigh the benefits against the risks and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only with extreme caution. Monitor patients receiving therapy that affects hemostasis closely. In clinical trials, serious adverse events related to bleeding were more common in patients treated with SPRIX than placebo. In clinical trials and in postmarketing experience with ketorolac IV and IM dosing, postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with peri-operative use. Therefore, use SPRIX with caution in the postoperative setting when hemostasis is critical. 5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of SPRIX in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.13 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and a chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.6)]. 5.14 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of SPRIX with the eyes. If eye contact occurs, wash out the eye with water or saline, and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour. 5.15 Limitations of Use The total duration of use of SPRIX alone or sequentially with other forms of ketorolac is not to exceed 5 days. SPRIX must not be used concomitantly with other forms of ketorolac or other NSAIDs [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS SPRIX should not be used concomitantly with IM/IV or oral ketorolac, aspirin, or other NSAIDs. (5.1) Ketorolac can cause serious GI adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation. SPRIX should be prescribed with caution in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding. Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious GI events. (4, 5.2) NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation and may cause bleeding complications. SPRIX should be used with caution in patients who have coagulation disorders or are on therapy that affects hemostasis. Do not use SPRIX in patients for whom hemostasis is critical. (4, 5.3) Ketorolac can cause renal injury. SPRIX should not be used in patients with advanced renal disease or patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion, and should be used with caution in patients taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors. (4, 5.4, 12.4) Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergic reactions to aspirin or NSAIDs. SPRIX should be discontinued immediately in patients with allergic reactions. (4, 5.5, 5.7, 5.11) Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke can occur with NSAID treatment. (5.6) Fluid retention and edema have been observed in patients taking NSAIDs. SPRIX should be used with caution in patients with cardiac decompensation or similar conditions. (5.4, 5.6) NSAIDs can cause serious dermatologic adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal. SPRIX should be discontinued immediately in patients with skin reactions. (4, 5.7) During pregnancy, use of SPRIX beyond 30 weeks gestation can cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus, resulting in fetal harm. (5.8) 5.1 Limitations of Use The total duration of use of SPRIX alone or sequentially with other forms of ketorolac is not to exceed 5 days. SPRIX must not be used concomitantly with other forms of ketorolac or other NSAIDs [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. 5.2 Gastrointestinal (GI) Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and/or GI bleeding [see Contraindications (4)]. Ketorolac tromethamine can cause serious GI adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with ketorolac. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Minor upper GI problems, such as dyspepsia, are common and may also occur at any time during NSAID therapy. The incidence and severity of GI complications increases with increasing dose of, and duration of treatment with, ketorolac. Even short-term therapy is not without risk. In addition to past history of ulcer disease, other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy, and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of SPRIX until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs. Use great care when giving SPRIX to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. 5.3 Hematological Effects Because prostaglandins play an important role in hemostasis and NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation as well, use caution with use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients who have coagulation disorders, and monitor these patients carefully. The effects of NSAIDs other than aspirin on platelet function are reversible. Patients on therapeutic doses of anticoagulants (e.g., heparin or dicumarol derivatives) have an increased risk of bleeding complications if given ketorolac tromethamine concurrently; therefore, administer such concomitant therapy only with extreme caution. The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and therapy that affects hemostasis, including prophylactic low dose heparin (2500 to 5000 units q12h), warfarin and dextrans, has not been studied extensively, but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Until data from such studies are available, carefully weigh the benefits against the risks and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only with extreme caution. Monitor patients receiving therapy that affects hemostasis closely. In clinical trials, serious adverse events related to bleeding were more common in patients treated with SPRIX than placebo. In clinical trials and in postmarketing experience with ketorolac IV and IM dosing, postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with peri-operative use. Therefore, use SPRIX with caution in the postoperative setting when hemostasis is critical. Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. Do not use SPRIX in patients for whom hemostasis is critical [see Contraindications (4), Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.2, 7.10)]. 5.4 Renal Effects Ketorolac and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys. Patients with reduced creatinine clearance will have diminished clearance of the drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. SPRIX is contraindicated in patients with advanced renal impairment [see Contraindications (4)]. In patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Decreased intravascular volume such as when oral intake is poor increases the risks of renal toxicity with NSAIDs. Therefore, patients treated with SPRIX should be adequately hydrated. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Use SPRIX with caution in patients with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics or ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Assess the risks and benefits prior to giving SPRIX to these patients, and follow these patients closely during SPRIX therapy. Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury such as interstitial nephritis and nephrotic syndrome. 5.5 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergic reactions to aspirin or NSAIDs and in patients without known prior exposure to ketorolac. SPRIX should be discontinued immediately in patients with allergic reactions. SPRIX should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. 5.6 Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular (CV) Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events, myocardial infarction and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID increases the risk of serious GI events. Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Drug Interactions (7.2, 7.3, 7.7)]. Hypertension NSAIDs can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention, edema, retention of NaCl, oliguria, and elevations of serum urea nitrogen and creatinine have been reported in clinical trials with ketorolac. Therefore, only use SPRIX very cautiously in patients with cardiac decompensation or similar conditions. 5.7 Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ketorolac, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations, and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.8 Pregnancy Starting at 30 weeks gestation, SPRIX can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman due to an increased risk of premature closure of the ductus arteriosus. If SPRIX is used at or after 30 weeks gestation, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.9 Hepatic Effects Use SPRIX with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or a history of liver disease. Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of patients taking NSAIDs, including ketorolac. These laboratory abnormalities may progress, may remain unchanged, or may be transient with continuing therapy. Notable elevations of ALT or AST (approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs. In addition, rare cases of severe hepatic reactions, including jaundice, fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis, and hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4, 5.6),Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Evaluate patients with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with SPRIX. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue SPRIX. 5.10 Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of SPRIX in reducing inflammation and fever may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.11 Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm which can be fatal. Since cross reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, do not administer SPRIX to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity, and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. 5.12 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of SPRIX with the eyes. If eye contact occurs, wash out the eye with water or saline, and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2%) in patients treated with SPRIX and occurring at a rate at least twice that of placebo are nasal discomfort, rhinalgia, increased lacrimation, throat irritation, oliguria, rash, bradycardia, decreased urine output, increased ALT and/or AST, hypertension, and rhinitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Egalet US Inc. at 1-800-518-1084 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to SPRIX in patients enrolled in placebo-controlled efficacy studies of acute pain following major surgery. The studies enrolled 828 patients (183 men, 645 women) ranging from 18 years to over 75 years of age. The patients in the postoperative pain studies had undergone major abdominal, orthopedic, gynecologic, or other surgery; 455 patients received SPRIX (31.5 mg) three or four times a day for up to 5 days, and 245 patients received placebo. Most patients were receiving concomitant opioids, primarily PCA morphine. The most frequently reported adverse reactions were related to local symptoms, i.e., nasal discomfort or irritation. These reactions were generally mild and transient in nature. The most common drug-related adverse events leading to premature discontinuation were nasal discomfort or nasal pain (rhinalgia). Table 1: Post-Operative Patients with Adverse Reactions Observed at a Rate of 2% or More and at Least Twice the Incidence of the Placebo Group. SPRIX (N = 455) Placebo (N = 245) Nasal discomfort 15% 2% Rhinalgia 13% <1% Lacrimation increased 5% 0% Throat irritation 4% <1% Oliguria 3% 1% Rash 3% <1% Bradycardia 2% <1% Urine output decreased 2% <1% ALT and/or AST increased 2% 1% Hypertension 2% 1% Rhinitis 2% <1% In controlled clinical trials in major surgery, primarily knee and hip replacements and abdominal hysterectomies, seven patients (N=455, 1.5%) treated with SPRIX experienced serious adverse events of bleeding (4 patients) or hematoma (3 patients) at the operative site versus one patient (N = 245, 0.4%) treated with placebo (hematoma). Six of the seven patients treated with SPRIX underwent a surgical procedure and/or blood transfusion and the placebo patient subsequently required a blood transfusion. Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials with Other Dosage Forms of Ketorolac or Other NSAIDs Adverse reaction rates increase with higher doses of ketorolac. It is necessary to remain alert for the severe complications of treatment with ketorolac, such as GI ulceration, bleeding, and perforation, postoperative bleeding, acute renal failure, anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions, and liver failure. These complications can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac is indicated, especially when the drug is used inappropriately. In patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: *Incidence greater than 10% Gastrointestinal (GI) experiences including: abdominal pain flatulence gross bleeding/perforation stomatitis constipation/diarrhea GI fullness heartburn vomiting dyspepsia GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) nausea* Other experiences: abnormal renal function drowsiness headache* injection site pain rash anemia edema hypertension pruritus tinnitus dizziness elevated liver enzymes increased bleeding time purpura sweating Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally (<1% in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials) include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, palpitation, pallor, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: anorexia, dry mouth, eructation, esophagitis, excessive thirst, gastritis, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, increased appetite, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and Lymphatic: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight change Nervous System: abnormal dreams, abnormal thinking, anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, euphoria, extrapyramidal symptoms, hallucinations, hyperkinesis, inability to concentrate, insomnia, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, stupor, tremors, vertigo, malaise Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, rhinitis Special Senses: abnormal taste, abnormal vision, blurred vision, hearing loss Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary retention 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of ketorolac or other NSAIDs. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Other observed reactions (reported from postmarketing experience in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs) are: Body as a Whole: angioedema, death, hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reaction, laryngeal edema, tongue edema, myalgia Cardiovascular: arrhythmia, bradycardia, chest pain, flushing, hypotension, myocardial infarction, vasculitis Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Lyell's syndrome, bullous reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis Gastrointestinal: acute pancreatitis, liver failure, ulcerative stomatitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) Hemic and Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia, postoperative wound hemorrhage (rarely requiring blood transfusion) Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyponatremia Nervous System: aseptic meningitis, convulsions, coma, psychosis Respiratory: bronchospasm, respiratory depression, pneumonia Special Senses: conjunctivitis Urogenital: flank pain with or without hematuria and/or azotemia, hemolytic uremic syndrome"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Gastrointestinal effects [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemorrhage [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Renal effects [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Anaphylactoid reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Cardiovascular thrombotic events [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Congestive heart failure and edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Serious skin reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Hepatic effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] The most frequently reported adverse reactions were related to local symptoms, i.e., nasal discomfort or irritation. These reactions were generally mild and transient in nature. The most common drug-related adverse events leading to premature discontinuation were nasal discomfort or nasal pain (rhinalgia). The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 2%) in patients treated with SPRIX and occurring at a rate at least twice that of placebo are nasal discomfort, rhinalgia, increased lacrimation, throat irritation, oliguria, rash, bradycardia, decreased urine output, increased ALT and/or AST, hypertension, and rhinitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact American Regent, Inc. at 1-800-734-9236 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Experience from SPRIX Clinical Studies Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to SPRIX in patients enrolled in placebo-controlled efficacy studies of acute pain following major surgery. The studies enrolled 828 patients (183 men, 645 women) ranging from 18 years to over 75 years of age. The patients in the postoperative pain studies had undergone major abdominal, orthopedic, gynecologic, or other surgery; 455 patients received SPRIX (31.5 mg) three or four times a day for up to 5 days, and 245 patients received placebo. Most patients were receiving concomitant opioids, primarily PCA morphine. Table 1. Post-operative Patients with Adverse Reactions Observed at a rate of 2% or more and at least twice the incidence of the placebo group. SPRIX (N=455) Placebo (N= 245) Nasal discomfort 15% 2% Rhinalgia 13% <1% Lacrimation increased 5% 0% Throat irritation 4% <1% Oliguria 3% 1% Rash 3% <1% Bradycardia 2% <1% Urine output decreased 2% <1% ALT and/or AST increased 2% 1% Hypertension 2% 1% Rhinitis 2% <1% In controlled clinical trials in major surgery, primarily knee and hip replacements and abdominal hysterectomies, seven patients (N=455, 1.5%) treated with SPRIX experienced serious adverse events of bleeding (4 patients) or hematoma (3 patients) at the operative site versus one patient (N=245, 0.4%) treated with placebo (hematoma). Six of the seven patients treated with SPRIX underwent a surgical procedure and/or blood transfusion and the placebo patient subsequently required a blood transfusion. 6.2 Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials with Other Dosage Forms of Ketorolac or Other NSAIDs Adverse reaction rates increase with higher doses of ketorolac. It is necessary to remain alert for the severe complications of treatment with ketorolac, such as GI ulceration, bleeding, and perforation, postoperative bleeding, acute renal failure, anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions, and liver failure. These complications can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac is indicated, especially when the drug is used inappropriately. In patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) experiences including: *Incidence greater than 10% abdominal pain constipation/diarrhea dyspepsia flatulence GI fullness GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) gross bleeding/perforation heartburn nausea* stomatitis vomiting Other experiences: abnormal renal function anemia dizziness drowsiness edema elevated liver enzymes headache* hypertension increased bleeding time injection site pain pruritus purpura rash tinnitus sweating Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally (<1% in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials) include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, palpitation, pallor, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: anorexia, dry mouth, eructation, esophagitis, excessive thirst, gastritis, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, increased appetite, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and Lymphatic: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight change Nervous System: abnormal dreams, abnormal thinking, anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, euphoria, extrapyramidal symptoms, hallucinations, hyperkinesis, inability to concentrate, insomnia, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, stupor, tremors, vertigo, malaise Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, rhinitis Special Senses: abnormal taste, abnormal vision, blurred vision, hearing loss Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary retention 6.3 Adverse Reactions from Postmarketing Experience with Other Dosage Forms of Ketorolac or Other NSAIDs Other observed reactions (reported from postmarketing experience in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs) are: Body as a Whole: angioedema, death, hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reaction, laryngeal edema, tongue edema, myalgia Cardiovascular: arrhythmia, bradycardia, chest pain, flushing, hypotension, myocardial infarction, vasculitis Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Lyell's syndrome, bullous reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis Gastrointestinal: acute pancreatitis, liver failure, ulcerative stomatitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) Hemic and Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia, postoperative wound hemorrhage (rarely requiring blood transfusion) Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyponatremia Nervous System: aseptic meningitis, convulsions, coma, psychosis Respiratory: bronchospasm, respiratory depression, pneumonia Special Senses: conjunctivitis Urogenital: flank pain with or without hematuria and/or azotemia, hemolytic uremic syndrome"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Gastrointestinal effects [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hemorrhage [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Renal effects [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Anaphylactoid reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Cardiovascular thrombotic events [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Congestive heart failure and edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Serious skin reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Hepatic effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] The most frequently reported adverse reactions were related to local symptoms, i.e., nasal discomfort or irritation. These reactions were generally mild and transient in nature. The most common drug-related adverse events leading to premature discontinuation were nasal discomfort or nasal pain (rhinalgia). The most common adverse reactions (incidence > 2%) in patients treated with SPRIX and occurring at a rate at least twice that of placebo are nasal discomfort, rhinalgia, increased lacrimation, throat irritation, oliguria, rash, bradycardia, decreased urine output, increased ALT and/or AST, hypertension, and rhinitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact American Regent, Inc. at 1-800-734-9236 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Experience from SPRIX Clinical Studies Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to SPRIX in patients enrolled in placebo-controlled efficacy studies of acute pain following major surgery. The studies enrolled 828 patients (183 men, 645 women) ranging from 18 years to over 75 years of age. The patients in the postoperative pain studies had undergone major abdominal, orthopedic, gynecologic, or other surgery; 455 patients received SPRIX (31.5 mg) three or four times a day for up to 5 days, and 245 patients received placebo. Most patients were receiving concomitant opioids, primarily PCA morphine. Table 1. Post-operative Patients with Adverse Reactions Observed at a rate of 2% or more and at least twice the incidence of the placebo group. SPRIX (N=455) Placebo (N= 245) Nasal discomfort 15% 2% Rhinalgia 13% <1% Lacrimation increased 5% 0% Throat irritation 4% <1% Oliguria 3% 1% Rash 3% <1% Bradycardia 2% <1% Urine output decreased 2% <1% ALT and/or AST increased 2% 1% Hypertension 2% 1% Rhinitis 2% <1% In controlled clinical trials in major surgery, primarily knee and hip replacements and abdominal hysterectomies, seven patients (N=455, 1.5%) treated with SPRIX experienced serious adverse events of bleeding (4 patients) or hematoma (3 patients) at the operative site versus one patient (N=245, 0.4%) treated with placebo (hematoma). Six of the seven patients treated with SPRIX underwent a surgical procedure and/or blood transfusion and the placebo patient subsequently required a blood transfusion. 6.2 Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials with Other Dosage Forms of Ketorolac or Other NSAIDs Adverse reaction rates increase with higher doses of ketorolac. It is necessary to remain alert for the severe complications of treatment with ketorolac, such as GI ulceration, bleeding, and perforation, postoperative bleeding, acute renal failure, anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions, and liver failure. These complications can be serious in certain patients for whom ketorolac is indicated, especially when the drug is used inappropriately. In patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) experiences including: *Incidence greater than 10% abdominal pain constipation/diarrhea dyspepsia flatulence GI fullness GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) gross bleeding/perforation heartburn nausea* stomatitis vomiting Other experiences: abnormal renal function anemia dizziness drowsiness edema elevated liver enzymes headache* hypertension increased bleeding time injection site pain pruritus purpura rash tinnitus sweating Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally (<1% in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs in clinical trials) include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, palpitation, pallor, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: anorexia, dry mouth, eructation, esophagitis, excessive thirst, gastritis, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, increased appetite, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding Hemic and Lymphatic: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, epistaxis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight change Nervous System: abnormal dreams, abnormal thinking, anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, euphoria, extrapyramidal symptoms, hallucinations, hyperkinesis, inability to concentrate, insomnia, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, stupor, tremors, vertigo, malaise Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, rhinitis Special Senses: abnormal taste, abnormal vision, blurred vision, hearing loss Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, increased urinary frequency, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure, urinary retention 6.3 Adverse Reactions from Postmarketing Experience with Other Dosage Forms of Ketorolac or Other NSAIDs Other observed reactions (reported from postmarketing experience in patients taking ketorolac or other NSAIDs) are: Body as a Whole: angioedema, death, hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reaction, laryngeal edema, tongue edema, myalgia Cardiovascular: arrhythmia, bradycardia, chest pain, flushing, hypotension, myocardial infarction, vasculitis Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Lyell's syndrome, bullous reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis Gastrointestinal: acute pancreatitis, liver failure, ulcerative stomatitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) Hemic and Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia, postoperative wound hemorrhage (rarely requiring blood transfusion) Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyponatremia Nervous System: aseptic meningitis, convulsions, coma, psychosis Respiratory: bronchospasm, respiratory depression, pneumonia Special Senses: conjunctivitis Urogenital: flank pain with or without hematuria and/or azotemia, hemolytic uremic syndrome"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ketorolac is highly bound to human plasma protein (mean 99.2%). There is no evidence in animal or human studies that ketorolac induces or inhibits hepatic enzymes capable of metabolizing itself or other drugs. Concomitant use with anticoagulants may increase the risk of serious GI bleeding. (7.1) 7.1 Warfarin, Digoxin, Salicylate, and Heparin The in vitro binding of warfarin to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac (99.5% control vs. 99.3%) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 to 10 mcg/mL. Ketorolac does not alter digoxin protein binding. In vitro studies indicate that, at therapeutic concentrations of salicylate (300 mcg/mL), the binding of ketorolac was reduced from approximately 99.2% to 97.5%, representing a potential twofold increase in unbound ketorolac plasma levels. Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin, warfarin, ibuprofen, naproxen, piroxicam, acetaminophen, phenytoin, and tolbutamide did not alter ketorolac protein binding. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs, in general, on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than the users of either drug alone. 7.2 Aspirin When ketorolac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ketorolac is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of SPRIX and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.5, 5.11)]. 7.3 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that ketorolac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with SPRIX, observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4, 5.6)], as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. 7.4 Probenecid Concomitant administration of oral ketorolac and probenecid resulted in decreased clearance and volume of distribution of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels (total AUC increased approximately threefold from 5.4 to 17.8 mcg/h/mL), and terminal half-life increased approximately twofold from 6.6 to 15.1 hours. Therefore, concomitant use of SPRIX and probenecid is contraindicated. 7.5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when SPRIX and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when SPRIX is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.7 ACE Inhibitors/Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may increase the risk of renal impairment, particularly in volume-depleted patients. Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Consider this interaction in patients taking SPRIX concomitantly with ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II receptor antagonists [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4, 5.6)]. 7.8 Antiepileptic Drugs Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of ketorolac and antiepileptic drugs (phenytoin, carbamazepine). 7.9 Psychoactive Drugs Hallucinations have been reported when ketorolac was used in patients taking psychoactive drugs (fluoxetine, thiothixene, alprazolam). 7.10 Pentoxifylline When ketorolac is administered concurrently with pentoxifylline, there is an increased tendency to bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use of SPRIX and Pentoxifylline is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 7.11 Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants In postmarketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea. The concurrent use of ketorolac with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied. 7.12 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Use caution when SPRIX is administered concomitantly with SSRIs. 7.13 Fluticasone The rate and extent of absorption of ketorolac from SPRIX administration (31.5 mg dose) were assessed in subjects with allergic rhinitis before and after the administration of a single daily dose of 200 mcg (as 2 x 50 mcg in each nostril) of fluticasone propionate nasal spray for 7 consecutive days. There was no effect on the pharmacokinetic characteristics of SPRIX that can be considered clinically significant [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. 7.14 Oxymetazoline The rate and extent of absorption of ketorolac from SPRIX administration were assessed in subjects with allergic rhinitis before and 30 min after a single dose (3 sprays in each nostril) of oxymetazoline hydrochloride nasal spray. There was no effect on the pharmacokinetic characteristics of SPRIX that can be considered clinically significant [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with ketorolac. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Ketorolac Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Ketorolac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of ketorolac and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone [see Clinical pharmacology (12.3)]. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. When ketorolac is administered concurrently with pentoxifylline, there is an increased risk of bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of SPRIX with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Concomitant use of SPRIX and pentoxifylline is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Concomitant use of SPRIX and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. SPRIX is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of SPRIX and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of ketorolac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SPRIX and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ketorolac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) Clinical pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: The concomitant use of ketorolac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SPRIX and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Probenecid Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of oral ketorolac and probenecid results in increased half-life and systemic exposure. [see Clinical pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Concomitant use of SPRIX and probenecid is contraindicated. Antiepileptic Drugs Clinical Impact: Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of ketorolac and antiepileptic drugs (phenytoin, carbamazepine). Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and antiepileptic drugs, monitor patients for seizures. Psychoactive Drugs Clinical Impact: Hallucinations have been reported when ketorolac was used in patients taking psychoactive drugs (fluoxetine, thiothixene, alprazolam). Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and psychoactive drugs, monitor patients for hallucinations. Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: In postmarketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea. The concurrent use of ketorolac with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied. Intervention: During concomitant use of SPRIX and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, monitor patients for apnea. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking SPRIX with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of SPRIX and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended. (7) ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with SPRIX may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure. (7) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with SPRIX in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function. (7) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. (7) Digoxin: Concomitant use with SPRIX can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels. (7)"$$
