
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials 45 (5.0%) of 905 patients treated with ketoconazole cream, 2% and 5 (2.4%) of 208 patients treated with placebo reported side effects consisting mainly of severe irritation, pruritus and stinging. One of the patients treated with ketoconazole cream developed a painful allergic reaction. In worldwide postmarketing experience, rare reports of contact dermatitis have been associated with ketoconazole cream or one of its excipients, namely propylene glycol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials 45 (5.0%) of 905 patients treated with Ketoconazole Cream 2% and 5 (2.4%) of 208 patients treated with placebo reported side effects consisting mainly of severe irritation, pruritus and stinging. One of the patients treated with Ketoconazole Cream developed a painful allergic reaction. In worldwide postmarketing experience, rare reports of contact dermatitis have been associated with Ketoconazole Cream or one of its excipients, namely sodium sulfite or propylene glycol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials 45 (5%) of 905 patients treated with ketoconazole cream, 2% and 5 (2.4%) of 208 patients treated with placebo reported side effects consisting mainly of severe irritation, pruritus and stinging. One of the patients treated with ketoconazole cream developed a painful allergic reaction. In worldwide postmarketing experience, rare reports of contact dermatitis have been associated with ketoconazole cream or one of its excipients, namely sodium sulfite or propylene glycol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials 45 (5%) of 905 patients treated with ketoconazole cream, 2% and 5 (2.4%) of 208 patients treated with placebo reported side effects consisting mainly of severe irritation, pruritus and stinging. One of the patients treated with ketoconazole cream developed a painful allergic reaction. In worldwide postmarketing experience, rare reports of contact dermatitis have been associated with ketoconazole cream or one of its excipients, namely sodium sulfite or propylene glycol. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact G&W Laboratories, Inc., at 1-800-922-1036 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION During clinical trials 45 (5.0%) of 905 patients treated with Ketoconazole Cream 2% and 5 (2.4%) of 208 patients treated with placebo reported side effects consisting mainly of severe irritation, pruritus and stinging. One of the patients treated with Ketoconazole Cream developed a painful allergic reaction. In worldwide postmarketing experience, rare reports of contact dermatitis have been associated with Ketoconazole Cream or one of its excipients, namely sodium sulfite or propylene glycol."$$
