""$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The electrolyte solution contained in compartment A must be mixed with the buffer solution of compartment B before use in order to obtain the reconstituted solution suitable for hemofiltration /hemodiafiltration. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. PrismaSol solution includes several formulations. Selection of a specific formulation depends on the patient's condition and treatment procedures. Administration of the solution should only be under the direction of a physician competent in intensive care treatment including CRRT. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Note that citrate, when used as an anticoagulant, contributes to the base load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Abnormalities in plasma phosphate concentration, especially hypophosphatemia, may also occur. Hypophosphatemia may require phosphate supplementation to maintain plasma concentrations in the physiologic range. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. When connecting solution bags, follow the instructions in this leaflet for correct use of the access ports. Incorrect use of the access port or other restrictions to fluid flow might lead to incorrect patient weight loss and may result in machine alarms. Continuing treatment without resolving the originating cause may result in patient injury or death. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. After heating, verify that the solution remains clear and contains no particulate matter. The solution in compartment A must be mixed with the solution of compartment B before use. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. Diabetes Mellitus or Glucose Intolerance Patients may require initiation of insulin therapy or modification of insulin dosage during treatment with PrismaSol solution. Appropriate monitoring of blood glucose should be performed and insulin dosage adjusted accordingly."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of filterable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. In patients with cardiovascular disease, especially those using cardiac glycoside medications, plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No adverse events have been reported with a causal relationship Thonsilla compositum(R) Oral Vials."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Transient stinging, burning, itching or irritation is possible."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS If pain persists or worsens, if new symptoms occur, or if redness or swelling is present, the patient should be carefully re-evaluated because these could be signs of a serious condition.Pregnancy Category C. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this drug. It is also not known whether this drug can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. This drug should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Heel Inc. at 1.800.920.9203 or info@heelusa.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Warnings and Precautions None"$$
