"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Proper dose titration is critical to prevent the persistence of hypothyroidism or the development of hyperthyroidism (5.1) Elderly and patients with cardiovascular disease: Initiate levothyroxine at less than the full replacement dose because of the increased risk of cardiac adverse reactions, including atrial fibrillation (2.3, 5.2, 8.5) Suppression of thyroid nodules with levothyroxine is generally not recommended (5.3) Patients with concomitant adrenal insufficiency: Treat with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of treatment with levothyroxine (5.4) Long-term levothyroxine therapy can decrease bone mineral density. Give the lowest effective dose, particularly in patients with compromised bone mineral density (5.5) 5.1 Importance of Proper Dose Titration to Prevent Hyperthyroidism or Incomplete Treatment of Hypothyroidism Levothyroxine has a narrow therapeutic index. Regardless of the indication for use, careful dosage titration is necessary to avoid hyperthyroidism or incomplete treatment of hypothyroidism. These consequences include, among others, adverse effects on cardiovascular function, growth and development, bone metabolism, reproductive function, cognitive function, emotional state, gastrointestinal function, and on glucose and lipid metabolism. Periodic clinical and thyroid function monitoring is recommended [See Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. In addition, many drugs interact with levothyroxine sodium necessitating adjustments in dosing to maintain therapeutic response [See Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.2 Risk of Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease In the elderly and in patients with cardiovascular disorders, levothyroxine therapy should be initiated at lower doses than those recommended in younger individuals or in patients without cardiac disease and it should be noted that unlike levothyroxine sodium tablets, TIROSINT capsules cannot be cut in half [See Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. If cardiac symptoms develop or worsen, the levothyroxine sodium dose should be reduced or withheld for one week and then cautiously restarted at a lower dose. Overtreatment with levothyroxine sodium may have adverse cardiovascular effects such as an increase in heart rate, cardiac wall thickness, and cardiac contractility and may precipitate angina or arrhythmias. Patients with coronary artery disease who are receiving levothyroxine therapy should be monitored closely during surgical procedures because of the possibility of precipitating cardiac arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation. Concomitant administration of levothyroxine and sympathomimetic agents to patients with coronary artery disease may precipitate coronary insufficiency [See Drug Interactions (7.7)]. 5.3 Patients with Nontoxic Diffuse Goiter or Nodular Thyroid Disease Suppression of thyroid nodules with levothyroxine is a controversial issue. Routine suppression of benign thyroid nodules is generally not recommended in iodine-sufficient patients. If the serum thyrotropin-stimulating hormone (TSH) is already suppressed, levothyroxine sodium should not be administered. If the serum TSH level is not suppressed, TIROSINT should not be used without frequent laboratory monitoring of thyroid function for evidence of hyperthyroidism and clinical monitoring for potential associated adverse cardiovascular signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism. 5.4 Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Occasionally, chronic autoimmune thyroiditis may occur in association with other autoimmune disorders such as adrenal insufficiency, pernicious anemia, and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Patients with concomitant adrenal insufficiency should be treated with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of treatment with levothyroxine sodium [See Contraindications (4)]. Failure to do so may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis when thyroid hormone therapy is initiated, due to increased metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids by thyroid hormone. 5.5 Thyroid Hormone Over-replacement Associated with Decreased Bone Mineral Density Over-replacement with levothyroxine therapy has been associated with decreased bone mineral density, especially in post-menopausal women. The increased bone resorption may be associated with increased serum levels and urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorous, elevations in bone alkaline phosphatase, and suppressed serum parathyroid hormone levels. Therefore, it is recommended that patients receiving levothyroxine sodium be given the minimum dose necessary to achieve the desired clinical and biochemical response, unless TSH suppression is the goal of therapy, as in patients with well-differentiated thyroid cancer."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions with levothyroxine therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage [See Overdosage (10)]. They include the following: General: fatigue, increased appetite, weight loss, heat intolerance, fever, excessive sweating Central nervous system: headache, hyperactivity, nervousness, anxiety, irritability, emotional lability, insomnia Musculoskeletal: tremors, muscle weakness Cardiovascular: palpitations, tachycardia, arrhythmias, increased pulse and blood pressure, heart failure, angina, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest Respiratory: dyspnea Gastrointestinal (GI): diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, elevations in liver function tests Dermatologic: hair loss, flushing Endocrine: decreased bone mineral density Reproductive: menstrual irregularities, impaired fertility Common adverse reactions for levothyroxine are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage including: irregular heartbeat, chest pain, shortness of breath, leg cramps, headache, nervousness, irritability, insomnia, tremors, muscle weakness, change in appetite, weight change, diarrhea, heat intolerance, changes in menstrual periods, and skin rash (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Akrimax Pharmaceuticals at 1-888-383-1733, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Adverse Reactions in Children Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in children receiving levothyroxine therapy. Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants and premature closure of the epiphyses in children with resultant compromised adult height. Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy. Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients (in this product or other levothyroxine products) have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products. These include urticaria, pruritus, skin rash, flushing, angioedema, various GI symptoms (abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea), fever, arthralgia, serum sickness and wheezing. Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to TIROSINT (7) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to TIROSINT. In addition, thyroid hormones and thyroid status have varied effects on the pharmacokinetics and actions of other drugs. A listing of drug interactions with L-thyroxine (T4) is provided in the following tables. These tables should not be seen as comprehensive due to the introduction of new drugs that interact with the thyroidal axis or the discovery of previously unknown interactions. The prescriber should be aware of this fact and should consult appropriate reference sources (e.g., prescribing information of newly approved drugs, medical literature) for additional information if a drug-drug interaction with levothyroxine is suspected. Table 2: Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption (Hypothyroidism) Drug or Drug Class Effect Potential impact: Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Calcium Carbonate Ferrous Sulfate Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine, and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Orlistat Patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine should be monitored for changes in thyroid function. Bile Acid Sequestrants -Colesevelam -Cholestyramine -Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins -Kayexalate -Sevelamer Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor thyrotropin-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels. Other drugs: Sucralfate Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Table 3: Drugs That May Alter T4 and Triiodothyronine (T3) Serum Transport Without Effecting Free Thyroxine (FT4) Concentration (Euthyroidism) Drugs That May Increase Serum Thyroxine-Binding Globulin (TBG) Concentration Drugs That May Decrease Serum TBG Concentration Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow-Release Nicotinic Acid Drugs That May Cause Protein-Binding Site Displacement Potential impact: Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT4. Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations, and patients are likely clinically euthyroid. Salicylates (> 2 g/day) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30%. Other drugs: Furosemide (> 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates - Phenylbutazone Table 4: Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 (Hypothyroidism) Drug or Drug Class Effect Potential impact: Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased levothyroxine requirements. Carbamazepine Hydantoins Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total and FT4 may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. Close monitoring of thyroid hormone parameters is recommended. Other drugs: Phenobarbital Rifampin Table 5: Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3 Drug or Drug Class Effect Potential impact: Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, leading to decreased T3 levels. However, serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased. Beta-adrenergic antagonists (e.g., Propranolol > 160 mg/day) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (> 160 mg/day), T3 and T4 levels change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. It should be noted that actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone >= 4 mg/day) Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T4 levels. However, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production (See above). Other: Amiodarone 7.2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Careful monitoring of diabetic control is recommended, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued. 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the TIROSINT dose is increased. Coagulation tests should be closely monitored to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides The therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides may be reduced by levothyroxine. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides. 7.5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic (e.g., Amitriptyline) or tetracyclic (e.g., Maprotiline) antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation; onset of action of tricyclics may be accelerated. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements. 7.6 Ketamine Concurrent use may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia; cautious administration to patients receiving thyroid hormone therapy is recommended. 7.7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease. 7.8 Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitors Concurrent use of tyrosine-kinase inhibitors such as imatinib may cause hypothyroidism. TSH levels should be closely monitored in such patients. 7.9 Drug-Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect levothyroxine sodium absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing. Soybean flour, cotton seed meal, walnuts, and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the GI tract. 7.10 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Changes in TBG concentration must be considered when interpreting T4 and T3 values, which necessitates measurement and evaluation of unbound (free) hormone and/or determination of the free T4 index (FT4I). Pregnancy, infectious hepatitis, estrogens, estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations. Decreases in TBG concentrations are observed in nephrosis, severe hypoproteinemia, severe liver disease, acromegaly, and after androgen or corticosteroid therapy. Familial hyper- or hypo-thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described, with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with levothyroxine therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage (see PRECAUTIONS and OVERDOSAGE ). They include the following: General fatigue, increased appetite, weight loss, heat intolerance, fever, excessive sweating; Central nervous system headache, hyperactivity, nervousness, anxiety, irritability, emotional lability, insomnia; Musculoskeletal tremors, muscle weakness; Cardiovascular palpitations, tachycardia, arrhythmias, increased pulse and blood pressure, heart failure, angina, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest; Respiratory dyspnea; Gastrointestinal diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal cramps and elevations in liver function tests; Dermatologic hair loss, flushing; Endocrine decreased bone mineral density; Reproductive menstrual irregularities, impaired fertility. Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in children receiving levothyroxine therapy. Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants and premature closure of the epiphyses in children with resultant compromised adult height. Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy. Inadequate levothyroxine dosage will produce or fail to ameliorate the signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism. Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products. These include urticaria, pruritus, skin rash, flushing, angioedema, various GI symptoms (abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea), fever, arthralgia, serum sickness and wheezing. Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur."$$
"Drug Interactions Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to SYNTHROID. In addition, thyroid hormones and thyroid status have varied effects on the pharmacokinetics and actions of other drugs. A listing of drug-thyroidal axis interactions is contained in Table 2. The list of drug-thyroidal axis interactions in Table 2 may not be comprehensive due to the introduction of new drugs that interact with the thyroidal axis or the discovery of previously unknown interactions. The prescriber should be aware of this fact and should consult appropriate reference sources (e.g., package inserts of newly approved drugs, medical literature) for additional information if a drug-drug interaction with levothyroxine is suspected. Table 2. Drug-Thyroidal Axis Interactions Drug or Drug Class Effect Drugs that may reduce TSH secretion - the reduction is not sustained; therefore, hypothyroidism does not occur Dopamine/Dopamine Agonists Glucocorticoids Octreotide Use of these agents may result in a transient reduction in TSH secretion when administered at the following doses: Dopamine (>= 1 mcg/kg/min); Glucocorticoids (hydrocortisone >= 100 mg/day or equivalent); Octreotide (> 100 mcg/day). Drugs that alter thyroid hormone secretion Drugs that may decrease thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hypothyroidism Aminoglutethimide Amiodarone Iodide (including iodine-containing radiographic contrast agents) Lithium Methimazole Propylthiouracil (PTU) Sulfonamides Tolbutamide Long-term lithium therapy can result in goiter in up to 50% of patients, and either subclinical or overt hypothyroidism, each in up to 20% of patients. The fetus, neonate, elderly and euthyroid patients with underlying thyroid disease (e.g., Hashimoto's thyroiditis or with Grave's disease previously treated with radioiodine or surgery) are among those individuals who are particularly susceptible to iodine-induced hypothyroidism. Oral cholecystographic agents and amiodarone are slowly excreted, producing more prolonged hypothyroidism than parenterally administered iodinated contrast agents. Long-term aminoglutethimide therapy may minimally decrease T4 and T3 levels and increase TSH, although all values remain within normal limits in most patients. Drugs that may increase thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hyperthyroidism Amiodarone Iodide (including iodine-containing radiographic contrast agents) Iodide and drugs that contain pharmacologic amounts of iodide may cause hyperthyroidism in euthyroid patients with Grave's disease previously treated with antithyroid drugs or in euthyroid patients with thyroid autonomy (e.g., multinodular goiter or hyperfunctioning thyroid adenoma). Hyperthyroidism may develop over several weeks and may persist for several months after therapy discontinuation. Amiodarone may induce hyperthyroidism by causing thyroiditis. Drugs that may decrease T4 absorption, which may result in hypothyroidism Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Bile Acid Sequestrants - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Calcium Carbonate Cation Exchange Resins - Kayexalate Ferrous Sulfate Orlistat Sucralfate Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine, and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine should be monitored for changes in thyroid function. Drugs that may alter T4 and T3 serum transport - but FT4 concentration remains normal; and therefore, the patient remains euthyroid Drugs that may increase serum TBG concentration Drugs that may decrease serum TBG concentration Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow-Release Nicotinic Acid Drugs that may cause protein-binding site displacement Furosemide (> 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates - Phenylbutazone Salicylates (> 2 g/day) Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT4. Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations and, therefore, patients are clinically euthyroid. Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total-T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30%. Drugs that may alter T4 and T3 metabolism Drugs that may increase hepatic metabolism, which may result in hypothyroidism Carbamazepine Hydantoins Phenobarbital Rifampin Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased levothyroxine requirements. Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total- and free- T4 may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. Drugs that may decrease T4 5'-deiodinase activity Amiodarone Beta-adrenergic antagonists - (e.g., Propranolol > 160 mg/day) Glucocorticoids - (e.g., Dexamethasone >= 4 mg/day) Propylthiouracil (PTU) Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, leading to decreased T3 levels. However, serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased. In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (> 160 mg/day), T3 and T4 levels change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. It should be noted that actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T4 levels. However, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production (see above). Miscellaneous Anticoagulants (oral) - Coumarin Derivatives - Indandione Derivatives Thyroid hormones appear to increase the catabolism of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, thereby increasing the anticoagulant activity of oral anticoagulants. Concomitant use of these agents impairs the compensatory increases in clotting factor synthesis. Prothrombin time should be carefully monitored in patients taking levothyroxine and oral anticoagulants and the dose of anticoagulant therapy adjusted accordingly. Antidepressants - Tricyclics (e.g., Amitriptyline) - Tetracyclics (e.g., Maprotiline) - Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs; e.g., Sertraline) Concurrent use of tri/tetracyclic antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and CNS stimulation; onset of action of tricyclics may be accelerated. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements. Antidiabetic Agents - Biguanides - Meglitinides - Sulfonylureas - Thiazolidinediones - Insulin Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Careful monitoring of diabetic control is recommended, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued. Cardiac Glycosides Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be reduced in hyperthyroidism or when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Therapeutic effect of digitalis glycosides may be reduced. Cytokines - Interferon-\\316\\261 - Interleukin-2 Therapy with interferon-\\316\\261 has been associated with the development of antithyroid microsomal antibodies in 20% of patients and some have transient hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, or both. Patients who have antithyroid antibodies before treatment are at higher risk for thyroid dysfunction during treatment. Interleukin-2 has been associated with transient painless thyroiditis in 20% of patients. Interferon-\\316\\262 and -\\316\\263 have not been reported to cause thyroid dysfunction. Growth Hormones - Somatrem - Somatropin Excessive use of thyroid hormones with growth hormones may accelerate epiphyseal closure. However, untreated hypothyroidism may interfere with growth response to growth hormone. Ketamine Concurrent use may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia; cautious administration to patients receiving thyroid hormone therapy is recommended. Methylxanthine Bronchodilators - (e.g., Theophylline) Decreased theophylline clearance may occur in hypothyroid patients; clearance returns to normal when the euthyroid state is achieved. Radiographic Agents Thyroid hormones may reduce the uptake of 123I, 131I, and 99mTc. Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease. Chloral Hydrate Diazepam Ethionamide Lovastatin Metoclopramide 6-Mercaptopurine Nitroprusside Para-aminosalicylate sodium Perphenazine Resorcinol (excessive topical use) Thiazide Diuretics These agents have been associated with thyroid hormone and/or TSH level alterations by various mechanisms. Oral anticoagulants Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the SYNTHROID dose is increased. Prothrombin time should be closely monitored to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments (see Table 2). Digitalis glycosides The therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides may be reduced by levothyroxine. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides (see Table 2)."$$
