"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Methemoglobinemia (5.1) DO NOT INJECT (5.2) Allergic and anaphylactic reactions can occur (5.3) Avoid contact with eyes (5.4) Use with caution in patients with severe hepatic disease (5.6) 5.1 Methemoglobinemia Prilocaine in Oraqix can cause elevated methemoglobin levels particularly in conjunction with methemoglobin-inducing agents. Methemoglobinemia has also been reported in a few cases in association with lidocaine treatment. Patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency or congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia are more susceptible to drug-induced methemoglobinemia. Oraqix should not be used in those patients with congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia and in infants under the age of twelve months who are receiving treatment with methemoglobin-inducing agents. Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may be delayed some hours after exposure. Initial signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia are characterized by a slate grey cyanosis seen in, e.g., buccal mucous membranes, lips and nail beds. In severe cases symptoms may include central cyanosis, headache, lethargy, dizziness, fatigue, syncope, dyspnea, CNS depression, seizures, dysrhythmia and shock. Methemoglobinemia should be considered if central cyanosis unresponsive to oxygen therapy occurs, especially if metHb-inducing agents have been used. Calculated oxygen saturation and pulse oximetry are inaccurate in the setting of methemoglobinemia. The diagnosis can be confirmed by an elevated methemoglobin level measured with co-oximetry. Normally, metHb levels are <1%, and cyanosis may not be evident until a level of at least 10% is present. The development of methemoglobinemia is generally dose related. The individual maximum level of metHb in blood ranged from 0.8% to 1.7% following administration of the maximum dose of 8.5g Oraqix. Management of Methemoglobinemia: Clinically significant symptoms of methemoglobinemia should be treated with a standard clinical regimen such as a slow intravenous infection of methylene blue at a dosage of 1to 2 mg/kg given over a five minute period. Patients taking drugs associated with drug-induced methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides, acetaminophen, acetanilide, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, dapsone, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, pamaquine, para-aminosalicylic acid, phenacetin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine, and quinine are also at greater risk for developing methemoglobinemia. Treatment with Oraqix should be avoided in patients with any of the above conditions or with a previous history of problems in connection with prilocaine treatment. 5.2 DO NOT INJECT Oraqix should not be used with standard dental syringes. Only use this product with the Oraqix blunt-tipped applicator, which is available from DENTSPLY Pharmaceutical. 5.3 Allergic/anaphylactic reactions Allergic and anaphylactic reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine in Oraqix can occur. These reactions may be characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If these reactions occur they should be managed by conventional means. 5.4 Avoid Contact with Eyes Oraqix coming in contact with the eye should be avoided because animal studies have demonstrated severe eye irritation. A loss of protective reflexes may allow corneal irritation and potential abrasion. If eye contact occurs, immediately rinse the eye with water or saline and protect it until normal sensation returns. In addition, the patient should be evaluated by an ophthalmologist, as indicated. 5.5 History of Drug Sensitivity Patients allergic to paraminobenzoic acid derivatives (procaine, tetracaine, benzocaine, etc.) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine and/or prilocaine. However, Oraqix should be used with caution in patients with a history of drug sensitivities, especially if the etiologic agent is uncertain. 5.6 Severe Hepatic Disease Patients with severe hepatic disease, because of their inability to metabolize local anesthetics normally, are at greater risk of developing toxic plasma concentrations of lidocaine and prilocaine."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence > 15%) are application site reactions including pain, soreness, irritation, numbness, ulcerations, vesicles, edema, abscess and/or redness. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact DENTSPLY Pharmaceutical at 1-800-989-8826 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Although no major differences in adverse events between Oraqix and placebo-treated subjects were observed, all patients in the placebo-controlled studies received either Oraqix or a placebo gel (consisting of the vehicle in Oraqix without lidocaine or prilocaine). Therefore, it is not possible to determine if adverse events in each treatment group were attributable to the inactive ingredients comprising the Oraqix or vehicle or if adverse event rates were higher than expected background rates. Therefore, a causal relationship between the reported adverse reactions and Oraqix could neither be established nor ruled out. Following SRP treatment with Oraqix in 391 patients, the most frequent adverse events were local reactions in the oral cavity (see following table). These events, which occurred in approximately 15% of patients, included pain, soreness, irritation, numbness, vesicles, ulcerations, edema and/or redness in the treated area. Of the 391 patients treated with Oraqix, five developed ulcerative lesions and two developed vesicles of mild to moderate severity near the site of SRP. In addition, ulcerative lesions in or near the treated area were also reported for three out of 168 patients who received placebo. Other symptoms reported in more than one patient were headache, taste perversion, nausea, fatigue, flu, respiratory infection, musculoskeletal pain and accident/injury. Table 1. Number (percent) of patients with adverse events occurring in more than one patient in any of the treatment groups. Each patient is counted only once per adverse event. The occurrence in a single patient is included in this table if the same symptom has been seen in at least one patient in another group. System Organ Class Preferred Term Oraqix gelin a cross-over study, 170 subjects received either Oraqix or lidocaine injection 2% in each test period (N = 391) n (%) Placebo gel (N = 168) n (%) Lidocaine injection (N = 170) n (%) Muscular-Skeletal System Disorders Myalgia 1(0) 2(1) Arthralgia and/or Arthropathy 1(0) 1(1) Central & Peripheral Nervous System Disorders Headache 8(2) 3(2) 5(3) Dizziness 1(0) 1(1) 1(1) Special Senses Other, Disorders Taste Perversionincludes complaints of bad or bitter taste lasting for up to 4 hours after administration of Oraqix 8(2) 1(1) Gastro-Intestinal System Disorders Nausea 3(1) 1(1) Respiratory System Disorders Respiratory Infection 2(1) 1(1) Rhinitis 2 (1) Body as a whole- General Disorders Accident and/or Injury 2(1) 2(1) Fatigue 3(1) 2(1) Flu-Like Disorder 2(1) Pain (remote from application site) 1(0) 1(1) 1(1) Application Site Disordersi.e. symptoms in the oral cavity Anesthesia Local 2(1) Application Site Reactionincludes pain, soreness, irritation, numbness, ulcerations, vesicles, edema, abscess and/or redness in the treated area 52(13) 20(12)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other local anesthetics or agents structurally related to local anesthetics (7.1) Drugs associated with drug-induced methemoglobinemia (7.2) 7.1 Other Local Anesthetics or Agents Structurally Related to Local Anesthetics Oraqix should be used with caution in combination with dental injection anesthesia, other local anesthetics, or agents structurally related to local anesthetics, e.g., Class 1 antiarrhythmics such as tocainide and mexiletine, as the toxic effects of these drugs are likely to be additive and potentially synergistic. 7.2 Drugs inducing Methemoglobinemia Patients taking drugs associated with drug-induced methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides, acetaminophen, acetanilide, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, dapsone, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, pamaquine, para-aminosalicylic acid, phenacetin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine, and quinine are also at greater risk for developing methemoglobinemia [See OVERDOSAGE (10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with Compounded Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base have been reported. The relationship to Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions that were ascribed to Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1.0 g of Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base. In patients treated with Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of Compounded Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with EMLA Cream on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of EMLA Cream have been reported. The relationship to EMLA Cream or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 EMLA Cream-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions that were ascribed to EMLA Cream. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1.0 g of EMLA Cream. In patients treated with EMLA Cream on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 EMLA Cream-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of EMLA Cream are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with EMLA Cream on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of EMLA Cream have been reported. The relationship to EMLA Cream or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 EMLA Cream-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions that were ascribed to EMLA Cream. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1.0 g of EMLA Cream. In patients treated with EMLA Cream on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 EMLA Cream-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of EMLA Cream are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% have been reported. The relationship to lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5%-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions which were ascribed to lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5%. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1 g of lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5%. In patients treated with lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5%-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with lidocaine and prilocaine cream on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream have been reported. The relationship to lidocaine and prilocaine cream or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 lidocaine and prilocaine cream-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions that were ascribed to lidocaine and prilocaine cream. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1.0 g of lidocaine and prilocaine cream. In patients treated with lidocaine and prilocaine cream on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 lidocaine and prilocaine cream-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with lidocaine and prilocaine cream on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream have been reported. The relationship to lidocaine and prilocaine cream or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 lidocaine and prilocaine cream-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions which were ascribed to lidocaine and prilocaine cream. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1.0 g of lidocaine and prilocaine cream. In patients treated with lidocaine and prilocaine cream on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 lidocaine and prilocaine cream-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with lidocaine and prilocaine cream on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream have been reported. The relationship to lidocaine and prilocaine cream or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 lidocaine and prilocaine cream-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions that were ascribed to lidocaine and prilocaine cream. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1.0 g of lidocaine and prilocaine cream. In patients treated with lidocaine and prilocaine cream on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 lidocaine and prilocaine cream-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of lidocaine and prilocaine cream are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Localized Reactions: During or immediately after treatment with lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream on intact skin, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. Rare cases of discrete purpuric or petechial reactions at the application site have been reported. Rare cases of hyperpigmentation following the use of lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream have been reported. The relationship to lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream or the underlying procedure has not been established. In clinical studies on intact skin involving over 1,300 lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream-treated subjects, one or more such local reactions were noted in 56% of patients, and were generally mild and transient, resolving spontaneously within 1 or 2 hours. There were no serious reactions that were ascribed to lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream. Two recent reports describe blistering on the foreskin in neonates about to undergo circumcision. Both neonates received 1.0 g of lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream. In patients treated with lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream on intact skin, local effects observed in the trials included: paleness (pallor or blanching) 37%, redness (erythema) 30%, alterations in temperature sensations 7%, edema 6%, itching 2% and rash, less than 1%. In clinical studies on genital mucous membranes involving 378 lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream-treated patients, one or more application site reactions, usually mild and transient, were noted in 41% of patients. The most common application site reactions were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%) and edema (10%). Allergic Reactions: Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions associated with lidocaine or prilocaine can occur. They are characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock. If they occur they should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value. Systemic (Dose Related) Reactions: Systemic adverse reactions following appropriate use of lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream are unlikely due to the small dose absorbed (see Pharmacokinetics subsection of CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Systemic adverse effects of lidocaine and/or prilocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents including CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest). Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness. Cardiovascular manifestations may include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest."$$
"Drug Interactions: Compounded Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (e.g., amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, doetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should Compounded Lidocaine-Prilocaine-Cream Base be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: EMLA Cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS ). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (eg, amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, doetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS ). Should EMLA Cream be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: EMLA Cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (e.g., amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, doetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should EMLA Cream be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: EMLA Cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (eg, amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, doetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should EMLA Cream be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: Lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (eg, amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, dofetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should lidocaine 2.5% and prilocaine 2.5% cream be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: Lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (eg, amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, dofetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS ). Should lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: Lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (eg, amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, dofetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should lidocaine and prilocaine cream, 2.5%/2.5% be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: Lidocaine and prilocaine cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (e.g., amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, doetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should lidocaine and prilocaine cream be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions: Lidocaine and prilocaine cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (eg, amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, doetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should lidocaine and prilocaine cream be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
"Drug Interactions Lidocaine and prilocaine cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Prilocaine may contribute to the formation of methemoglobin in patients treated with other drugs known to cause this condition (see Methemoglobinemia subsection of WARNINGS). Specific interaction studies with lidocaine/prilocaine and class III anti-arrhythmic drugs (e.g., amiodarone, bretylium, sotalol, dofetilide) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS). Should lidocaine and prilocaine cream be used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine and/or prilocaine, cumulative doses from all formulations must be considered."$$
