
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Not for Injection. Corneal Opacification. Prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic may produce permanent corneal opacification and ulceration with accompanying visual loss. Not for Injection (5) Corneal Opacification- prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic may produce permanent corneal opacification and ulceration with accompanying visual loss (5)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are conjunctival hyperemia, corneal epithelial changes, headache, and burning upon instillation. Most common adverse reactions are conjunctival hyperemia, corneal epithelial changes, headache, and burning upon instillation (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Akorn at 1-800-932-5676 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse experiences following the administration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride USP are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents. These adverse experiences are, in general, dose-related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption, or may result from a hypersensitivity, idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient. Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature. The following types are those most commonly reported: Central Nervous System: CNS manifestations are excitatory and/or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest. The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest. Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption. Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia, hypotension, and cardiovascular collapse, which may lead to cardiac arrest. Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions, urticaria, edema or anaphylactoid reactions. Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation. Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and, if they occur, should be managed by conventional means. The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: During, immediately, or following application of product, there may be transient stinging or burning from open areas of skin, or transient blanching (lightening), or erythema (redness) of the skin."$$
"Adverse Reactions During or immediately after treatment, the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation. CALL YOUR DOCTOR ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS. Call your doctor about side effects . You may report side effects to the FDA at 1- 800-FDA-1088."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: During or immediately following application of product, there may be transient stinging or burning from open areas of skin, or transient blanching (lightening), or erythema (redness) of the skin."$$
