
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of lincomycin: Gastrointestinal Glossitis, stomatitis, nausea, vomiting, antibacterial -associated diarrhea and colitis, and pruritus ani. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hematopoietic Neutropenia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenic purpura have been reported. There have been rare reports of aplastic anemia and pancytopenia in which LINCOCIN could not be ruled out as the causative agent. Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioneurotic edema, serum sickness and anaphylaxis have been reported. Cases of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with LINCOCIN (see WARNINGS). Skin and Mucous Membranes Skin rashes, urticaria and vaginitis and rare instances of exfoliative and vesiculobullous dermatitis have been reported. Liver Although no direct relationship of LINCOCIN to liver dysfunction has been established, jaundice and abnormal liver function tests (particularly elevations of serum transaminase) have been observed. Renal Although no direct relationship of lincomycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances. Cardiovascular After too rapid intravenous administration, rare instances of cardiopulmonary arrest and hypotension have been reported. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Special Senses Tinnitus and vertigo have been reported occasionally. Local Reactions Patients have demonstrated excellent local tolerance to intramuscularly administered LINCOCIN. Reports of pain following injection have been infrequent. Intravenous administration of LINCOCIN in 250 to 500 mL of 5% dextrose injection or 0.9% sodium chloride injection produced no local irritation or phlebitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of lincomycin: Gastrointestinal Glossitis, stomatitis, nausea, vomiting, antibacterial -associated diarrhea and colitis, and pruritus ani. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hematopoietic Neutropenia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenic purpura have been reported. There have been rare reports of aplastic anemia and pancytopenia in which Lincomycin could not be ruled out as the causative agent. Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioneurotic edema, serum sickness and anaphylaxis have been reported. Cases of erythema multiforme, some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been associated with Lincomycin (see WARNINGS ). Skin and Mucous Membranes Skin rashes, urticaria and vaginitis and rare instances of exfoliative and vesiculobullous dermatitis have been reported. Liver Although no direct relationship of Lincomycin to liver dysfunction has been established, jaundice and abnormal liver function tests (particularly elevations of serum transaminase) have been observed. Renal Although no direct relationship of lincomycin to renal damage has been established, renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances. Cardiovascular After too rapid intravenous administration, rare instances of cardiopulmonary arrest and hypotension have been reported. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Special Senses Tinnitus and vertigo have been reported occasionally. Local Reactions Patients have demonstrated excellent local tolerance to intramuscularly administered Lincomycin. Reports of pain following injection have been infrequent. Intravenous administration of Lincomycin in 250 to 500 mL of 5% dextrose injection or 0.9% sodium chloride injection produced no local irritation or phlebitis."$$
"Drug Interactions Lincomycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, it should be used in caution in patients receiving such agents. Antagonism between lincomycin and erythromycin in vitro has been demonstrated. Because of possible clinical significance, the two drugs should not be administered concurrently."$$
