""$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events: Perform cardiac evaluation in patients with cardiovascular risk factors. (5.1) Arrhythmias: Discontinue TREXIMET if occurs. (5.3) Chest, Throat, Neck, and/or Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure: Generally not associated with myocardial ischemia; evaluate for coronary artery disease in patients at high risk. (5.4) Cerebrovascular Events: Discontinue TREXIMET if occurs. (5.5) Other Vasospasm Reactions: Discontinue TREXIMET if non-coronary vasospastic reaction occurs. (5.6) Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop. (5.7) Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure. (5.8) Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of TREXIMET in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure. (5.9) Medication Overuse Headache: Detoxification may be necessary. (5.10) Serotonin Syndrome: Discontinue TREXIMET if occurs. (5.11) Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of TREXIMET in patients with advanced renal disease. (5.12) Anaphylactic Reactions: TREXIMET should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. Seep emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs.(5.13) Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue TREXIMET at first sign of rash or other signs of hypersensitivity. (5.14) Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia. (5.16) Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity). (5.17) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events The use of TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease (CAD) and in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery due to increased risk of serious cardiovascular events with sumatriptan and NSAIDS [see Contraindications (4)]. Cardiovascular Events with Sumatriptan There have been rare reports of serious cardiac adverse reactions, including acute myocardial infarction, occurring within a few hours following administration of sumatriptan. Some of these reactions occurred in patients without known CAD. TREXIMET may cause coronary artery vasospasm (Prinzmetal's angina), even in patients without a history of CAD. Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events with Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as naproxen, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4)]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Perform a cardiovascular evaluation in patients who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) prior to receiving TREXIMET. If there is evidence of CAD or coronary artery vasospasm, TREXIMET is contraindicated. For patients with multiple cardiovascular risk factors who have a negative cardiovascular evaluation, consider administering the first dose of TREXIMET in a medically supervised setting and performing an electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately following administration of TREXIMET. For such patients, consider periodic cardiovascular evaluation in intermittent long-term users of TREXIMET. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of cardiovascular events, even in the absence of previous cardiovascular symptoms. Patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious cardiovascular events and the steps to take if they occur. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including naproxen, a component of TREXIMET, cause serious gastrointestinal adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only 1 in 5 patients who develop a serious upper gastrointestinal adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper gastrointestinal ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs appear to occur in approximately 1% of patients treated daily for 3 to 6 months and in about 2% to 4% of patients treated for 1 year. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Among 3,302 adult patients with migraine who received TREXIMET in controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials, 1 patient experienced a recurrence of gastric ulcer after taking 8 doses over 3 weeks, and 1 patient developed a gastric ulcer after treating an average of 8 attacks per month over 7 months. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing gastrointestinal bleeding compared with patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for gastrointestinal bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal gastrointestinal events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore special care should be taken in treating this population. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For high risk patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue TREXIMET until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.3 Arrhythmias Life-threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm, including ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation leading to death, have been reported within a few hours following the administration of 5-HT1 agonists. Discontinue TREXIMET if these disturbances occur. TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders. 5.4 Chest, Throat, Neck, and/or Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure Sensations of tightness, pain, pressure, and heaviness in the precordium, throat, neck, and jaw commonly occur after treatment with sumatriptan and are usually non-cardiac in origin. However, perform a cardiac evaluation if these patients are at high cardiac risk. The use of TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with CAD and those with Prinzmetal's variant angina. 5.5 Cerebrovascular Events Cerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and stroke have occurred in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, and some have resulted in fatalities. In a number of cases, it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary, the 5-HT1 agonist having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine when they were not. Also, patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events (e.g., stroke, hemorrhage, TIA). Discontinue TREXIMET if a cerebrovascular event occurs. Before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs, and in migraineurs who present with atypical symptoms, exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions. TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke or TIA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.6 Other Vasospasm Reactions Sumatriptan may cause non-coronary vasospastic reactions, such as peripheral vascular ischemia, gastrointestinal vascular ischemia and infarction (presenting with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea), splenic infarction, and Raynaud's syndrome. In patients who experience symptoms or signs suggestive of non-coronary vasospasm reaction following the use of any 5-HT1 agonist, rule out a vasospastic reaction before receiving additional TREXIMET. Reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of 5-HT1 agonists. Since visual disorders may be part of a migraine attack, a causal relationship between these events and the use of 5-HT1 agonists have not been clearly established. 5.7 Hepatotoxicity Borderline elevations of 1 or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of patients who take NSAIDs including naproxen, a component of TREXIMET. Hepatic abnormalities may be the result of hypersensitivity rather than direct toxicity. These abnormalities may progress, may remain essentially unchanged, or may be transient with continued therapy. Notable (3 times the upper limit of normal) elevations of SGPT (ALT) or SGOT (AST) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs. In addition, rare, sometimes fatal cases of severe hepatic injury, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis, and hepatic failure have been reported with NSAIDs. TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. A patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with TREXIMET. TREXIMET should be discontinued if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash), or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flulike\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue TREXIMET immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. 5.8 Hypertension Significant elevation in blood pressure, including hypertensive crisis with acute impairment of organ systems, has been reported on rare occasions in patients treated with 5-HT1 agonists, including sumatriptan, a component of TREXIMET. This occurrence has included patients without a history of hypertension. NSAIDs, including naproxen, a component of TREXIMET, can also lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of cardiovascular events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), beta-blockers, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor blood pressure in patients treated with TREXIMET. TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.9 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of naproxen may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of TREXIMET in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If TREXIMET is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Since each TREXIMET 85/500 mg tablet contains approximately 60 mg of sodium and each TREXIMET 10/60 mg tablet contains approximately 20 mg of sodium, this should be considered in patients whose overall intake of sodium must be severely restricted. 5.10 Medication Overuse Headache Overuse of acute migraine drugs (e.g., ergotamine, triptans, opioids, or a combination of these drugs for 10 or more days per month) may lead to exacerbation of headache (medication overuse headache). Medication overuse headache may present as migraine-like daily headaches, or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks. Detoxification of patients, including withdrawal of the overused drugs, and treatment of withdrawal symptoms (which often includes a transient worsening of headache) may be necessary. 5.11 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with TREXIMET, particularly during coadministration with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and MAO inhibitors [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). The onset of symptoms usually occurs within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication. Discontinue TREXIMET if serotonin syndrome is suspected. 5.12 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, salt depletion, those taking diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. TREXIMET should be discontinued if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with renal disease develop or if systemic manifestations occur. TREXIMET is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CrCl] <30 mL/min) unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. If TREXIMET is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Monitor renal function in patients with mild (CrCl = 60 to 89 mL/min) or moderate (CrCl = 30 to 59 mL/min) renal impairment, preexisting kidney disease, or dehydration. The renal effects of TREXIMET may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with pre-existing renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating TREXIMET. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of TREXIMET [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of TREXIMET in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If TREXIMET is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with the use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.13 Anaphylactic Reactions Anaphylactic reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to either component of TREXIMET. Such reactions can be life-threatening or fatal. In general, anaphylactic reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens although anaphylactic reactions with naproxen have occurred in patient without known hypersensitivity to naproxen or to patients with aspirin sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.17)]. TREXIMET should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in patients with asthma who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4)]. TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to sumatriptan, naproxen, or any other component of TREXIMET. Naproxen has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients without known hypersensitivity to naproxen and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.17)]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.14 Serious Skin Reactions NSAID-containing products can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and to discontinue the use of TREXIMET at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.15 Premature Closure of the Ductus Arteriosus TREXIMET may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including TREXIMET, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Contraindications (4), Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.16 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross gastrointestinal blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with TREXIMET has signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including TREXIMET, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.17 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, TREXIMET is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma [see Contraindications (4)]. When TREXIMET is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.18 Seizures Seizures have been reported following administration of sumatriptan. Some have occurred in patients with either a history of seizures or concurrent conditions predisposing to seizures. There are also reports in patients where no such predisposing factors are apparent. TREXIMET should be used with caution in patients with a history of epilepsy or conditions associated with a lowered seizure threshold. 5.19 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of TREXIMET in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.20 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and a chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.7, 5.12)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hepatotoxicity: Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (5.3) Hypertension: Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (5.4, 7) Heart Failure and Edema: Avoid use of VIMOVO in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure (5.5) Renal Toxicity: Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of VIMOVO in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (5.6) Anaphylactic Reactions: Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (5.7) Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity: VIMOVO is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity) (5.8) Serious Skin Reactions: Discontinue VIMOVO at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity (5.9) Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation (5.10, 8.1) Hematologic Toxicity: Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs of symptoms of anemia (5.11, 7) Masking of Inflammation and Fever: Potential for diminished utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections (5.12) Laboratory Monitoring: Obtain CBC and chemistry profile periodically during treatment. Monitor hemoglobin periodically in patients on long-term treatment who have an initial value of 10 g or less. (5.13) Active Bleeding: Withdraw treatment in patients who experience active and clinically significant bleeding (5.14) Concomitant NSAID Use: Do not use VIMOVO with other naproxen-containing products or other non-aspirin NSAIDs (5.15) Gastric Malignancy: Symptomatic response to esomeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.16) Atrophic Gastritis: Noted on biopsy with long-term omeprazole therapy (5.17) Acute Interstitial Nephritis: Observed in patients taking PPIs (5.18) Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin (5.19) Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea: PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.20) Interaction with Clopidogrel: Avoid concomitant use (5.21, 7) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine (5.22) Hypomagnesemia: Reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.23) Interaction with St. John's Wort or Rifampin: Avoid concomitant use ( 5.24, 7) Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors: Increases in intragastric pH may result in hypergastrinemia, enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia, and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors (5.25) Interaction with Methotrexate: Concomitant use with PPIs may elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to toxicity (5.26, 7) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDS. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as naproxen, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications (4)]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years after follow-up. Avoid the use of VIMOVO in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If VIMOVO is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including naproxen, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2% to 4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such as patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue VIMOVO until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. NSAIDs should be given with care to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. 5.3 Hepatotoxicity Elevations of ALT or AST (three or more times the upper limit of the normal [ULN]) have been reported in approximately 1% of NSAID-treated patients in clinical trials. In addition, rare, and sometimes fatal, cases of severe hepatic injury, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis, and hepatic failure have been reported. Elevations of ALT or AST (less than three times ULN) may occur in up to 15% of patients treated with NSAIDs including naproxen. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flu-like\\\\" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue VIMOVO immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. VIMOVO should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including VIMOVO, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazides diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. 5.5 Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of naproxen may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of VIMOVO in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If VIMOVO is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of worsening heart failure. 5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy was usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of VIMOVO in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of VIMOVO may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with pre-existing renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating VIMOVO. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of VIMOVO [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid the use of VIMOVO in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal failure. If VIMOVO is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. 5.7 Anaphylactic Reactions Naproxen has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to naproxen and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, VIMOVO is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [see Contraindications (4)]. When VIMOVO is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. 5.9 Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including naproxen, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of VIMOVO at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. VIMOVO is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Naproxen may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including VIMOVO, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.11 Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with VIMOVO has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including VIMOVO, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant use of warfarin and other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), and serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase the risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of VIMOVO in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections. 5.13 Laboratory Monitoring Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and chemistry profile periodically [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.6)]. Patients with initial hemoglobin values of 10 g or less who are to receive long-term therapy should have hemoglobin values determined periodically. 5.14 Active Bleeding When active and clinically significant bleeding from any source occurs in patients receiving VIMOVO, the treatment should be withdrawn. 5.15 Concomitant NSAID Use VIMOVO contains naproxen as one of its active ingredients. It should not be used with other naproxen-containing products since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxen anion. The concomitant use of VIMOVO with any dose of a non-aspirin NSAID should be avoided due to the potential for increased risk of adverse reactions. 5.16 Concurrent Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with NEXIUM does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. 5.17 Atrophic Gastritis Atrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer. 5.18 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including VIMOVO. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue VIMOVO if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.19 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12)Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo-or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed. 5.20 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy like VIMOVO may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.21 Interaction with Clopidogrel Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole with clopidogrel. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by use with concomitant medications, such as esomeprazole, that inhibit CYP2C19 activity. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 40 mg esomeprazole reduces the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, consider alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Drug Interactions (7) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. 5.22 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to the established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. VIMOVO (a combination PPI/NSAID) is approved for use twice a day and does not allow for administration of a lower daily dose of the PPI [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.23 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.24 Concomitant use of St. John's Wort or Rifampin with VIMOVO Drugs that induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St. John's Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease esomeprazole concentrations. Avoid concomitant use of VIMOVO with St. John's Wort or rifampin [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.25 Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Providers should temporarily stop esomeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 5.26 Concomitant use of VIMOVO with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke. Patients with known CV disease/risk factors may be at greater risk (5.1) -New onset or worsening of pre-existing hypertension. Blood pressure should be monitored closely during treatment with VIMOVO (5.2, 7.1, 7.6) -Congestive heart failure and edema. VIMOVO should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure (5.3) -Serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events, which can be fatal. The risk is greater in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding, and in patients at high risk for GI events, especially the elderly. VIMOVO should be used with caution in these patients (5.4, 8.5) -Symptomatic response to esomeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.4) -Atrophic gastritis has been noted on biopsy with long-term omeprazole therapy (5.4) -Treatment should be withdrawn when active and clinically significant bleeding from any source occurs (5.5) -Renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury with long-term use. Use VIMOVO with caution in the elderly, those with impaired renal function, hypovolemia, salt depletion, heart failure, liver dysfunction, and those taking diuretics, or ACE-inhibitors. Not recommended for patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (2, 5.6, 5.7, 7.1, 7.6, 8.7) -Anaphylactic reactions. Do not use VIMOVO in patients with the aspirin triad (5.8) -Serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal and can occur without warning. Discontinue VIMOVO at first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity (5.9) -Elevated liver enzymes and, rarely, severe hepatic reactions. Discontinue use immediately if abnormal liver enzymes persist or worsen (5.11, 8.6, 12.3) -Should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment (e.g., Child-Pugh C) (2, 5.11, 8.6, 12.3) -PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. (5.16) -Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole with clopidogrel (5.17) -Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy is associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine (5.18) -Interactions with diagnostic investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors: Increases in intragastric pH may result in hypergastrinemia, enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia, and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. (5.20) -Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.21) -Avoid concomitant use of VIMOVO with St John's Wort or rifampin due to the potential reduction in esomeprazole levels. (5.22, 7.16) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDS, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4) ]. 5.2 Hypertension NSAIDs, including naproxen, a component of VIMOVO, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.6 )]. 5.3 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention, edema, and peripheral edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs and should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5.4 Gastrointestinal Effects \\342\\200\\224 Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including naproxen, a component of VIMOVO, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. While VIMOVO has been shown to significantly decrease the occurrence of gastric ulcers compared to naproxen alone, ulceration and associated complications can still occur. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. The utility of periodic laboratory monitoring has not been demonstrated, nor has it been adequately assessed. VIMOVO should be prescribed with caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk of developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants or antiplatelets (including low-dose aspirin), longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID or NSAID-containing product, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. In two studies, concurrent use of an NSAID, COX-2 inhibitor, or aspirin potentiated the risk of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7.2, 7.10 )]. Although these studies focused on upper gastrointestinal bleeding, bleeding at other sites cannot be ruled out. NSAIDs should be given with care to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. Gastrointestinal symptomatic response to therapy with VIMOVO does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Atrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer and a component of VIMOVO. 5.5 Active Bleeding When active and clinically significant bleeding from any source occurs in patients receiving VIMOVO, the treatment should be withdrawn. 5.6 Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, salt depletion, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. 5.7 Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of VIMOVO in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with VIMOVO is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If VIMOVO therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 5.8 Anaphylactic Reactions Anaphylactic reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to either component of VIMOVO. NSAIDs should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4) ]. Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactic reaction occurs. Anaphylactic reactions, like anaphylaxis, may have a fatal outcome. 5.9 Skin Reactions NSAIDs can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.10 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In late pregnancy, as with other NSAIDs, naproxen, a component of VIMOVO, should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus [see Contraindications (4) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.11 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of patients taking NSAIDs including naproxen, a component of VIMOVO. Hepatic abnormalities may be the result of hypersensitivity rather than direct toxicity. These laboratory abnormalities may progress, may remain essentially unchanged, or may be transient with continued therapy. The SGPT (ALT) test is probably the most sensitive indicator of liver dysfunction. Notable elevations of ALT or AST (approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs. In addition, rare cases of severe hepatic reactions, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis and hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes, have been reported. A patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with VIMOVO. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (eg, eosinophilia, rash, etc.), VIMOVO should be discontinued. Chronic alcoholic liver disease and probably other diseases with decreased or abnormal plasma proteins (albumin) reduce the total plasma concentration of naproxen, but the plasma concentration of unbound naproxen is increased. Caution is advised when high doses are required and some adjustment of dosage may be required in these patients. It is prudent to use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration of adequate treatment. VIMOVO should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 5.12 Hematological Effects Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible. Patients receiving VIMOVO who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants or antiplatelets, should be carefully monitored. 5.13 Pre-existing Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, VIMOVO should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with pre-existing asthma. 5.14 Concomitant NSAID Use VIMOVO contains naproxen as one of its active ingredients. It should not be used with other naproxen-containing products since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxen anion. The concomitant use of VIMOVO with any dose of a non-aspirin NSAID should be avoided due to the potential for increased risk of adverse reactions. 5.15 Corticosteroid Treatment VIMOVO cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency. Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation. Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids and the patient should be observed closely for any evidence of adverse effects, including adrenal insufficiency and exacerbation of symptoms of arthritis. 5.16 Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like VIMOVO may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. 5.17 Interaction with Clopidogrel Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole with clopidogrel. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by use with concomitant medications, such as esomeprazole, that inhibit CYP2C19 activity. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 40 mg esomeprazole reduces the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, consider alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.16) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] 5.18 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to the established treatment guidelines. [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. VIMOVO (a combination PPI/NSAID) is approved for use twice a day and does not allow for administration of a lower daily dose of the PPI. [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. 5.19 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of VIMOVO in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, noninflammatory painful conditions. 5.20 Laboratory Tests Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should have their CBC and a chemistry profile checked periodically. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop, systemic manifestations occur (eg, eosinophilia, rash, etc.) or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, VIMOVO should be discontinued. Patients with initial hemoglobin values of 10 g or less who are to receive long-term therapy should have hemoglobin values determined periodically. Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Providers should temporarily stop esomeprazole treatment before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary [see Pharmacodynamics (12.2) ]. 5.21 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically. [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.22 Concomitant use of St John's Wort or Rifampin with VIMOVO Drugs that induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St John's Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease esomeprazole concentrations. Avoid concomitant use of VIMOVO with St John's Wort or rifampin [see Drug Interactions (7.15) ]. 5.23 Concomitant use of VIMOVO with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients. [see Drug Interactions (7.8)]"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke. Patients with known CV disease/risk factors may be at greater risk (5.1) - Serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events, which can be fatal. The risk is greater in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or GI bleeding, and in patients at high risk for GI events, especially the elderly. VIMOVO should be used with caution in these patients (5.4, 8.5) - Treatment should be withdrawn when active and clinically significant bleeding from any source occurs (5.5) - Elevated liver enzymes and, rarely, severe hepatic reactions. Discontinue use immediately if abnormal liver enzymes persist or worsen (5.11, 8.6, 12.3) - Should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment (e.g., Childs-Pugh C) - New onset or worsening of pre-existing hypertension. Blood pressure should be monitored closely during treatment with VIMOVO (5.2, 7.1, 7.4) - Congestive heart failure and edema. VIMOVO should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure (5.3) - Renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury with long-term use. Use VIMOVO with caution in the elderly, those with impaired renal function, hypovolemia, salt depletion, heart failure, liver dysfunction, and those taking diuretics, or ACE-inhibitors. Not recommended for patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (2, 5.6, 5.7, 7.1, 7.4, 8.7) - Anaphylactoid reactions. Do not use VIMOVO in patients with the aspirin triad (5.8) - Serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal and can occur without warning. Discontinue VIMOVO at first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity (5.9) - Long-term PPI therapy is associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine (5.16) - Symptomatic response to esomeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.4) - Atrophic gastritis has been noted on biopsy with long-term omeprazole therapy (5.4) - Interactions with diagnostic investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors: Increases in intragastric pH may result in hypergastrinemia, enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia, and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. (5.18) - Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.19) - Avoid concomitant use of VIMOVO with St John's Wort or rifampin due to the potential reduction in esomeprazole levels. (5.20, 7.16) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDS, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.2 Hypertension NSAIDs, including naproxen, a component of VIMOVO, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.4)]. 5.3 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention, edema, and peripheral edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs and should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5.4 Gastrointestinal Effects \\342\\200\\224 Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including naproxen, a component of VIMOVO, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. While VIMOVO has been shown to significantly decrease the occurrence of gastric ulcers compared to naproxen alone, ulceration and associated complications can still occur. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. The utility of periodic laboratory monitoring has not been demonstrated, nor has it been adequately assessed. VIMOVO should be prescribed with caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk of developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants or antiplatelets (including low-dose aspirin), longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID or NSAID-containing product, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. In two studies, concurrent use of an NSAID, COX-2 inhibitor, or aspirin potentiated the risk of bleeding [see Drug Interactions (7.2, 7.8)]. Although these studies focused on upper gastrointestinal bleeding, bleeding at other sites cannot be ruled out. NSAIDs should be given with care to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. Gastrointestinal symptomatic response to therapy with VIMOVO does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Atrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer and a component of VIMOVO. 5.5 Active Bleeding When active and clinically significant bleeding from any source occurs in patients receiving VIMOVO, the treatment should be withdrawn. 5.6 Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, salt depletion, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. 5.7 Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of VIMOVO in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with VIMOVO is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If VIMOVO therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.8 Anaphylactoid Reactions Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to either component of VIMOVO. NSAIDs should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4)]. Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. Anaphylactoid reactions, like anaphylaxis, may have a fatal outcome. 5.9 Skin Reactions NSAIDs can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.10 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In late pregnancy, as with other NSAIDs, naproxen, a component of VIMOVO, should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus [see Contraindications (4), and Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.11 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of patients taking NSAIDs including naproxen, a component of VIMOVO. Hepatic abnormalities may be the result of hypersensitivity rather than direct toxicity. These laboratory abnormalities may progress, may remain essentially unchanged, or may be transient with continued therapy. The SGPT (ALT) test is probably the most sensitive indicator of liver dysfunction. Notable elevations of ALT or AST (approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs. In addition, rare cases of severe hepatic reactions, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis and hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes, have been reported. A patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with VIMOVO. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (eg, eosinophilia, rash, etc.), VIMOVO should be discontinued. Chronic alcoholic liver disease and probably other diseases with decreased or abnormal plasma proteins (albumin) reduce the total plasma concentration of naproxen, but the plasma concentration of unbound naproxen is increased. Caution is advised when high doses are required and some adjustment of dosage may be required in these patients. It is prudent to use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration of adequate treatment. VIMOVO should be avoided in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.12 Hematological Effects Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible. Patients receiving VIMOVO who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants or antiplatelets, should be carefully monitored. 5.13 Pre-existing Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, VIMOVO should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with pre-existing asthma. 5.14 Concomitant NSAID Use VIMOVO contains naproxen as one of its active ingredients. It should not be used with other naproxen-containing products since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxen anion. The concomitant use of VIMOVO with any dose of a non-aspirin NSAID should be avoided due to the potential for increased risk of adverse reactions. 5.15 Corticosteroid Treatment VIMOVO cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency. Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation. Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids and the patient should be observed closely for any evidence of adverse effects, including adrenal insufficiency and exacerbation of symptoms of arthritis. 5.16 Bone Fracture Several studies and literature reports indicate that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy is associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. Those patients with the highest risk received high-dose or long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest effective dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to the established treatment guidelines. Adequate vitamin D and calcium intake is recommended. 5.17 Masking of Inflammation and Fever The pharmacological activity of VIMOVO in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, noninflammatory painful conditions. 5.18 Laboratory Tests Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs should have their CBC and a chemistry profile checked periodically. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop, systemic manifestations occur (eg, eosinophilia, rash, etc.) or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, VIMOVO should be discontinued. Patients with initial hemoglobin values of 10 g or less who are to receive long-term therapy should have hemoglobin values determined periodically. Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Providers should temporarily stop esomeprazole treatment before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary [see Pharmacodynamics (12.2)]. 5.19 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically. [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] 5.20 Concomitant use of St John's Wort or Rifampin with VIMOVO Drugs that induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St John's Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease esomeprazole concentrations. Avoid concomitant use of VIMOVO with St John's Wort or rifampin [see Drug Interactions (7.15)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>5%): erosive gastritis, dyspepsia, gastritis, diarrhea, gastric ulcer, upper abdominal pain, nausea (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AstraZeneca at 1-800-236-9933 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reactions reported below are specific to the clinical trials with VIMOVO. See also the full prescribing information for naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium products. The safety of VIMOVO was evaluated in clinical studies involving 2317 patients (aged 27 to 90 years) and ranging from 3-12 months. Patients received either 500 mg/20 mg of VIMOVO twice daily (n=1157), 500 mg of enteric-coated naproxen twice daily (n=426), or placebo (n=246). The average number of VIMOVO doses taken over 12 months was 696+44. The table below lists all adverse reactions, regardless of causality, occurring in >2% of patients receiving VIMOVO from two clinical studies (Study 1 and Study 2). Both of these studies were randomized, multi-center, double-blind, parallel studies. The majority of patients were female (67%), white (86%). The majority of patients were 50-69 years of age (83%). Approximately one quarter were on low-dose aspirin. Table 1: Adverse Reactions occurring in patients >2% Study 1 and Study 2 (endoscopic studies) Preferred term (sorted by SOC) VIMOVO 500 mg/20 mg twice daily (n=428) % EC-Naproxen 500 mg twice daily (n=426) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Gastritis Erosive 19 38 Dyspepsia 18 27 Gastritis 17 14 Diarrhea 6 5 Gastric Ulcer 6 24 Abdominal Pain Upper 6 9 Nausea 5 5 Hiatus Hernia 4 6 Abdominal Distension 4 4 Flatulence 4 3 Esophagitis 4 8 Constipation 3 3 Abdominal pain 2 2 Erosive Duodenitis 2 12 Abdominal pain lower 2 3 Duodenitis 1 7 Gastritis hemorrhagic 1 2 Gastroesophageal reflux disease <1 4 Duodenal ulcer <1 5 Erosive esophagitis <1 6 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection 5 4 Bronchitis 2 2 Urinary tract infection 2 1 Sinusitis 2 2 Nasopharyngitis <1 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Arthralgia 1 2 Nervous system disorders Headache 3 1 Dysgeusia 2 1 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 2 3 In Study 1 and Study 2, patients taking VIMOVO had fewer premature discontinuations due to adverse reactions compared to patients taking enteric-coated naproxen alone (7.9% vs. 12.5% respectively). The most common reasons for discontinuations due to adverse events in the VIMOVO treatment group were upper abdominal pain (1.2%, n=5), duodenal ulcer (0.7%, n=3) and erosive gastritis (0.7%, n=3). Among patients receiving enteric-coated naproxen, the most common reasons for discontinuations due to adverse events were duodenal ulcer 5.4% (n=23), dyspepsia 2.8% (n=12) and upper abdominal pain 1.2% (n=5). The proportion of patients discontinuing treatment due to any upper gastrointestinal adverse events (including duodenal ulcers) in patients treated with VIMOVO was 4% compared to 12% for patients taking enteric-coated naproxen. The table below lists all adverse reactions, regardless of causality, occurring in >2% of patients from 2 clinical studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee (Study 3 and Study 4). Table 2: Adverse Reactions occurring in patients >2% (Study 3 and Study 4) Preferred term (sorted by SOC) VIMOVO 500 mg/20 mg twice daily (n=490) % Placebo (n=246) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Dyspepsia 8 12 Diarrhea 6 4 Abdominal Pain Upper 4 3 Constipation 4 1 Nausea 4 4 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 3 2 Headache 3 5 General disorders and administration site conditions Peripheral edema 3 1 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 3 Infections and infestations Sinusitis 1 2 The percentage of subjects who withdrew from the VIMOVO treatment group in these studies due to treatment-emergent adverse events was 7%. There were no preferred terms in which more than 1% of subjects withdrew from any treatment group. The long-term safety of VIMOVO was evaluated in an open-label clinical trial of 239 patients, of which 135 patients received 500 mg/20 mg of VIMOVO for 12 months. There were no differences in frequency or types of adverse reactions seen in the long-term safety study compared to shorter-term treatment in the randomized controlled studies. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Naproxen The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of naproxen. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility Esomeprazole The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of esomeprazole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Blood and Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, pancytopenia; Eye: blurred vision; Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis; stomatitis; microscopic colitis Hepatobiliary: hepatic failure, hepatitis with or without jaundice; Immune System: anaphylactic reaction/shock; Infections and Infestations: GI candidiasis, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea; Metabolism and Nutritional Disorders: hypomagnesemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: muscular weakness, myalgia, bone fracture; Nervous System: hepatic encephalopathy, taste disturbance; Psychiatric: aggression, agitation, depression, hallucination; Renal and Urinary: interstitial nephritis; Reproductive System and Breast: gynecomastia; Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: bronchospasm; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue: alopecia, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal)."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>5%): erosive gastritis, dyspepsia, gastritis, diarrhea, gastric ulcer, upper abdominal pain, nausea (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AstraZeneca at 1-800-236-9933 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reactions reported below are specific to the clinical trials with VIMOVO. See also the full prescribing information for naproxen and esomeprazole magnesium products. The safety of VIMOVO was evaluated in clinical studies involving 2317 patients (aged 27 to 90 years) and ranging from 3-12 months. Patients received either 500 mg/20 mg of VIMOVO twice daily (n=1157), 500 mg of enteric-coated naproxen twice daily (n=426), or placebo (n=246). The average number of VIMOVO doses taken over 12 months was 696+44. The table below lists all adverse reactions, regardless of causality, occurring in >2% of patients receiving VIMOVO from two clinical studies (Study 1 and Study 2). Both of these studies were randomized, multi-center, double-blind, parallel studies. The majority of patients were female (67%), white (86%). The majority of patients were 50-69 years of age (83%). Approximately one quarter were on low-dose aspirin. Table 1: Adverse Reactions occurring in patients >2% Study 1 and Study 2 (endoscopic studies) Preferred term (sorted by SOC) VIMOVO 500 mg/20 mg twice daily (n=428) % EC-Naproxen 500 mg twice daily (n=426) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Gastritis Erosive 19 38 Dyspepsia 18 27 Gastritis 17 14 Diarrhea 6 5 Gastric Ulcer 6 24 Abdominal Pain Upper 6 9 Nausea 5 5 Hiatus Hernia 4 6 Abdominal Distension 4 4 Flatulence 4 3 Esophagitis 4 8 Constipation 3 3 Abdominal pain 2 2 Erosive Duodenitis 2 12 Abdominal pain lower 2 3 Duodenitis 1 7 Gastritis hemorrhagic 1 2 Gastroesophageal reflux disease <1 4 Duodenal ulcer <1 5 Erosive esophagitis <1 6 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection 5 4 Bronchitis 2 2 Urinary tract infection 2 1 Sinusitis 2 2 Nasopharyngitis <1 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Arthralgia 1 2 Nervous system disorders Headache 3 1 Dysgeusia 2 1 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 2 3 In Study 1 and Study 2, patients taking VIMOVO had fewer premature discontinuations due to adverse reactions compared to patients taking enteric-coated naproxen alone (7.9% vs. 12.5% respectively). The most common reasons for discontinuations due to adverse events in the VIMOVO treatment group were upper abdominal pain (1.2%, n=5), duodenal ulcer (0.7%, n=3) and erosive gastritis (0.7%, n=3). Among patients receiving enteric-coated naproxen, the most common reasons for discontinuations due to adverse events were duodenal ulcer 5.4% (n=23), dyspepsia 2.8% (n=12) and upper abdominal pain 1.2% (n=5). The proportion of patients discontinuing treatment due to any upper gastrointestinal adverse events (including duodenal ulcers) in patients treated with VIMOVO was 4% compared to 12% for patients taking enteric-coated naproxen. The table below lists all adverse reactions, regardless of causality, occurring in >2% of patients from 2 clinical studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee (Study 3 and Study 4). Table 2: Adverse Reactions occurring in patients >2% (Study 3 and Study 4) Preferred term (sorted by SOC) VIMOVO 500 mg/20 mg twice daily (n=490) % Placebo (n=246) % Gastrointestinal Disorders Dyspepsia 8 12 Diarrhea 6 4 Abdominal Pain Upper 4 3 Constipation 4 1 Nausea 4 4 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 3 2 Headache 3 5 General disorders and administration site conditions Peripheral edema 3 1 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 3 Infections and infestations Sinusitis 1 2 The percentage of subjects who withdrew from the VIMOVO treatment group in these studies due to treatment-emergent adverse events was 7%. There were no preferred terms in which more than 1% of subjects withdrew from any treatment group. The long-term safety of VIMOVO was evaluated in an open-label clinical trial of 239 patients, of which 135 patients received 500 mg/20 mg of VIMOVO for 12 months. There were no differences in frequency or types of adverse reactions seen in the long-term safety study compared to shorter-term treatment in the randomized controlled studies. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Naproxen The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of naproxen. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility Esomeprazole The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of esomeprazole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Blood and Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, pancytopenia; Eye: blurred vision; Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis; stomatitis; Hepatobiliary: hepatic failure, hepatitis with or without jaundice; Immune System: anaphylactic reaction/shock; Infections and Infestations: GI candidiasis; Metabolism and Nutritional Disorders: hypomagnesemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: muscular weakness, myalgia; Nervous System: hepatic encephalopathy, taste disturbance; Psychiatric: aggression, agitation, depression, hallucination; Renal and Urinary: interstitial nephritis; Reproductive System and Breast: gynecomastia; Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: bronchospasm; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue: alopecia, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal)."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Hematologic Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Active Bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Acute Interstitial Nephritis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20)] Bone Fracture [see Warnings and Precautions (5.22)] Hypomagnesemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.23)] Most common adverse reactions in clinical trials (>5%) are gastritis, diarrhea (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Horizon Pharma USA, Inc. at 1-866-479-6742 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Clinical Trials Experience with VIMOVO Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reactions reported below are specific to the clinical trials with VIMOVO. The safety of VIMOVO was evaluated in clinical studies involving 2317 patients (aged 27 to 90 years) and ranging from 3 to 12 months. Patients received either 500 mg/20 mg of VIMOVO twice daily (n=1157), 500 mg of enteric-coated naproxen twice daily (n=426), or placebo (n=246). The average number of VIMOVO doses taken over 12 months was 696\\302\\26144. The table below lists all adverse reactions, regardless of causality, occurring in >2% of patients receiving VIMOVO and higher in the VIMOVO group than control from two clinical studies (Study 1 and Study 2). Both of these studies were randomized, multi-center, double-blind, parallel studies. The majority of patients were female (67%), white (86%). The majority of patients were 50-69 years of age (83%). Approximately one quarter were on low-dose aspirin. Table 1: Adverse Reactionsreported in >2% of patients and higher in the VIMOVO group than control in Study 1 and Study 2 (endoscopic studies) Preferred term VIMOVO 500 mg/20 mg twice daily (n=428) % EC-Naproxen 500 mg twice daily (n=426) % Gastritis 17 14 Diarrhea 6 5 Upper respiratory tract infection 5 4 Flatulence 4 3 Headache 3 1 Urinary tract infection 2 1 Dysgeusia 2 1 In Study 1 and Study 2, patients taking VIMOVO had fewer premature discontinuations due to adverse reactions compared to patients taking enteric-coated naproxen alone (7.9% vs. 12.5% respectively). The most common reasons for discontinuations due to adverse events in the VIMOVO treatment group were upper abdominal pain (1.2%, n=5), duodenal ulcer (0.7%, n=3) and erosive gastritis (0.7%, n=3). Among patients receiving enteric-coated naproxen, the most common reasons for discontinuations due to adverse events were duodenal ulcer 5.4% (n=23), dyspepsia 2.8% (n=12) and upper abdominal pain 1.2% (n=5). The proportion of patients discontinuing treatment due to any upper gastrointestinal adverse events (including duodenal ulcers) in patients treated with VIMOVO was 4% compared to 12% for patients taking enteric-coated naproxen. The table below lists all adverse reactions, regardless of causality, occurring in >2% of patients and higher in the VIMOVO group than placebo from 2 clinical studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee (Study 3 and Study 4). Table 2: Adverse Reactionsreported in >2% of patients and higher in the VIMOVO group than placebo in Study 3 and Study 4 Preferred term VIMOVO 500 mg/20 mg twice daily (n=490) % Placebo (n=246) % Diarrhea 6 4 Abdominal Pain Upper 4 3 Constipation 4 1 Dizziness 3 2 Peripheral edema 3 1 The percentage of subjects who withdrew from the VIMOVO treatment group in these studies due to treatment-emergent adverse events was 7%. There were no preferred terms in which more than 1% of subjects withdrew from any treatment group. The long-term safety of VIMOVO was evaluated in an open-label clinical trial of 239 patients, of which 135 patients received 500 mg/20 mg of VIMOVO for 12 months. There were no differences in frequency or types of adverse reactions seen in the long-term safety study compared to shorter-term treatment in the randomized controlled studies. Clinical Trials Experience with Naproxen and Other NSAIDs In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequent reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal: heartburn, nausea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: drowsiness, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus, skin eruptions, ecchymoses, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: palpitations General: dyspnea, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal: gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials. Gastrointestinal:pancreatitis Hepatobiliary: jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic: melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis Nervous System: inability to concentrate Dermatologic: skin rashes In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremor, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Clinical Trials Experience with Esomeprazole Magnesium Additional adverse reactions that were reported as possibly or probably related to NEXIUM with an incidence of <1% are listed below by body system: Body as a Whole: abdomen enlarged, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, chest pain, substernal chest pain, facial edema, hot flushes, fatigue, fever, flu-like disorder, generalized edema, malaise, pain, rigors Cardiovascular: flushing, hypertension, tachycardia Endocrine: goiter Gastrointestinal: dyspepsia, dysphagia, dysplasia GI, epigastric pain, eructation, esophageal disorder, gastroenteritis, GI hemorrhage, GI symptoms not otherwise specified, hiccup, melena, mouth disorder, pharynx disorder, rectal disorder, serum gastrin increased, tongue disorder, tongue edema, ulcerative stomatitis, vomiting Hearing: earache, tinnitus Hematologic: anemia, anemia hypochromic, cervical lymphadenopathy, epistaxis, leukocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia Hepatic: bilirubinemia, hepatic function abnormal, SGOT increased, SGPT increased Metabolic/Nutritional: glycosuria, hyperuricemia, hyponatremia, increased alkaline phosphatase, thirst, vitamin B12 deficiency, weight increase, weight decrease Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis aggravated, arthropathy, cramps, fibromyalgia syndrome, hernia, polymyalgia rheumatica Nervous System/Psychiatric: anorexia, apathy, appetite increased, confusion, depression aggravated, hypertonia, nervousness, hypoesthesia, impotence, insomnia, migraine, migraine aggravated, paresthesia, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo, visual field defect Reproductive: dysmenorrhea, menstrual disorder, vaginitis Respiratory: asthma aggravated, coughing, dyspnea, larynx edema, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis Skin and Appendages: acne, angioedema, dermatitis, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, rash erythematous, rash maculo-papular, skin inflammation, sweating increased, urticaria Special Senses: otitis media, parosmia, taste loss Urogenital: abnormal urine, albuminuria, cystitis, dysuria, fungal infection, hematuria, micturition frequency, moniliasis, genital moniliasis, polyuria Visual: conjunctivitis, vision abnormal The following potentially clinically significant laboratory changes in clinical trials, irrespective of relationship to esomeprazole, were reported in <= 1% of patients: increased creatinine, uric acid, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST, hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, serum gastrin, potassium, sodium, thyroxine and thyroid stimulating hormone. Decreases were seen in hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, potassium, sodium, and thyroxine. Endoscopic findings that were reported as adverse reactions include: duodenitis, esophagitis, esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, esophageal varices, gastric ulcer, hernia, benign polyps or nodules, Barrett's esophagus, and mucosal discoloration. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of VIMOVO. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. VIMOVO Body as a Whole: gait disturbance Gastrointestinal: abdominal distension, abdominal pain, gastroesophageal reflux, hematochezia Injury, Poisoning and Procedural Complications: contusion, fall Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: joint swelling, muscle spasms Urogenital: renal tubular necrosis Naproxen Body as a Whole: angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract, esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) Hepatobiliary: hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility Esomeprazole Magnesium Blood and Lymphatic: agranulocytosis Eye: blurred vision Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis, microscopic colitis Hepatobiliary: hepatic failure, hepatitis with or without jaundice Immune System: anaphylactic reaction/shock Infections and Infestations: GI candidiasis, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Metabolism and Nutritional Disorders: hypomagnesemia, with or without hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: muscular weakness, myalgia, bone fracture Nervous System: hepatic encephalopathy Psychiatric: aggression, agitation, hallucination Renal and Urinary: interstitial nephritis Reproductive System and Breast: gynecomastia Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: bronchospasm Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue: alopecia, erythema multiforme, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] GI Bleeding, Ulceration and Perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Chest, Throat, Neck, and/or Jaw Pain/Tightness/Pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Cerebrovascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Other Vasospasm Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Heart Failure and Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Medication Overuse Headache [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Serotonin Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Anaphylactic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Serious Skin Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Hematological Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Exacerbation Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] The most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2%) were: Adults: Dizziness, somnolence, nausea, chest discomfort/chest pain, neck/throat/jaw pain/tightness/pressure, paresthesia, dyspepsia, dry mouth. (6.1) Pediatrics: Hot flush (i.e., hot flash[es]) and muscle tightness. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pernix Therapeutics at 1-800-793-2145 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults The adverse reactions reported below are specific to the clinical trials with TREXIMET 85/500 mg. See also the full prescribing information for naproxen and sumatriptan products. Table 1 lists adverse reactions that occurred in 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials (Study 1 and 2) in adult patients who received 1 dose of study drug. Only adverse reactions that occurred at a frequency of 2% or more in any group treated with TREXIMET 85/500 mg and that occurred at a frequency greater than the placebo group are included in Table 1. Table 1. Adverse Reactions in Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials in Adult Patients with Migraine Adverse Reactions TREXIMET 85/500 mg % (n = 737) Placebo % (n = 752) Sumatriptan 85 mg % (n = 735) Naproxen Sodium 500 mg % (n = 732) Nervous system disorders Dizziness 4 2 2 2 Somnolence 3 2 2 2 Paresthesia 2 <1 2 <1 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 3 1 3 <1 Dyspepsia 2 1 2 1 Dry mouth 2 1 2 <1 Pain and other pressure sensations Chest discomfort/chest pain 3 <1 2 1 Neck/throat/jaw pain/tightness/pressure 3 1 3 1 The incidence of adverse reactions in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender or age of the patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse reactions. Pediatric Patients 12 to 17 Years of Age In a placebo-controlled clinical trial that evaluated pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age who received 1 dose of TREXIMET 10/60 mg, 30/180 mg, or 85/500 mg, adverse reactions occurred in 13% of patients who received 10/60 mg, 9% of patients who received 30/180 mg, 13% who received 85/500 mg, and 8% who received placebo. No patients who received TREXIMET experienced adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from the trial. The incidence of adverse reactions in pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age was comparable across all 3 doses compared with placebo. Table 2 lists adverse reactions that occurred in a placebo-controlled trial in pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age at a frequency of 2% or more with TREXIMET and were more frequent than the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions in a Placebo-Controlled Trial in Pediatric Patients 12 to 17 Years of Age with Migraine Adverse Reactions TREXIMET 10/60 mg % TREXIMET 30/180 mg % TREXIMET 85/500 mg % Placebo % (n = 96) (n = 97) (n = 152) (n = 145) Vascular Hot flush (i.e., hot flash[es]) 0 2 <1 0 Musculoskeletal Muscle tightness 0 0 2 0"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking TREXIMET with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of TREXIMET and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended. (7.1) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with TREXIMET in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function. (7.1) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of loop and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. (7.1) Digoxin: Concomitant use with TREXIMET can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels. (7.1) Lithium: Increases lithium plasma levels. (7.1) Methotrexate: Increases methotrexate plasma levels. (7.1) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with TREXIMET See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with NSAIDs or Sumatriptan Table 3. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with naproxen or sumatriptan Ergot-Containing Drugs Clinical Impact: Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Intervention: Because these effects may be additive, coadministration of TREXIMET and ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors Clinical Impact: MAO-A inhibitors increase systemic exposure of orally administered sumatriptan by 7-fold. Intervention: The use of TREXIMET in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated. Other 5-HT1 Agonists Clinical Impact: 5-HT1 agonist drugs can cause vasospastic effects. Intervention: Because these effects may be additive, coadministration of TREXIMET and other 5 HT1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Naproxen and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of naproxen and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of TREXIMET with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Concomitant use of TREXIMET and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)]. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Clinical Impact: Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Intervention: Discontinue TREXIMET if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of TREXIMET and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. During concomitant use of TREXIMET and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of TREXIMET with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8, 5.12)]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of naproxen with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of TREXIMET and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of TREXIMET and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high-dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate levels, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of TREXIMET and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of TREXIMET and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: The concomitant use of naproxen with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of TREXIMET and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Probenecid Clinical Impact: Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. The clinical significance of this is unknown. Intervention: Reduce the frequency of administration of Treximet when given concurrently with probenecid. 7.2 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Blood Tests Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. Urine Tests The administration of naproxen sodium may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artificially altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Several studies conducted with VIMOVO have shown no interaction between the two components, naproxen and esomeprazole. - Concomitant use of NSAIDs may reduce the antihypertensive effect of ACE Inhibitors, diuretics, and beta-blockers (7.1, 7.4, 7.9) - Concomitant use of NSAIDs increases lithium plasma levels (7.5) - Concomitant use of VIMOVO with methotrexate may increase the toxicity of methotrexate (7.6) - Concomitant use of VIMOVO with warfarin may result in increased risk of bleeding complications. Monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (7.7) - Esomeprazole inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (eg, ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) Patients treated with VIMOVO and digoxin may need to be monitored for increases in digoxin toxicity (7.12) - As with all NSAIDs caution is advised when cyclosporin is co-administered because of the increased risk of nephrotoxicity. (7.4) - Tacrolimus: Concomitant administration of esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. (7.5) 7.1 ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking VIMOVO concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.2 Aspirin VIMOVO can be administered with low-dose aspirin (<=325 mg/day) therapy. The concurrent use of aspirin and VIMOVO may increase the risk of serious adverse events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.4), Adverse Reactions (6), and Clinical Studies (14)]. When naproxen is administered with doses of aspirin (>1 gram/day), its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. However, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.3 Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. 7.4 Cyclosporin As with all NSAIDs caution is advised when cyclosporin is co-administered because of the increased risk of nephrotoxicity. 7.5 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. 7.6 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely both for signs of renal failure, as well as to monitor to assure diuretic efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6, 5.7)]. 7.7 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.8 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. NSAIDs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.9 Anticoagulants Naproxen decreases platelet aggregation and may prolong bleeding time. In addition, because warfarin and NSAIDs are highly protein bound, the free fraction of warfarin and naproxen may increase substantially in some patients. Concomitant use of VIMOVO and anticoagulants (such as warfarin, dicumarol and heparin) may result in increased risk of bleeding complications. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Post-marketing reports of changes in prothrombin measures have been reported among patients on concomitant warfarin and esomeprazole therapy. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 7.10 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs including COX-2 selective inhibitors. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 7.11 Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as sulphonylureas, hydantoins, and other NSAIDs. Patients simultaneously receiving VIMOVO and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other NSAIDs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. 7.12 Interactions With Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Drug-induced decrease in gastric acidity results in enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18) and Pharmacodynamics (12.2)]. 7.13 Drug/Laboratory Test Interaction Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). 7.14 Interactions Related to Absorption Esomeprazole inhibits gastric acid secretion. Therefore, esomeprazole may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (eg, ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin). Concomitant treatment with omeprazole (20 mg daily) and digoxin in healthy subjects increased the bioavailability of digoxin by 10% (30% in two subjects). Esomeprazole is an enantiomer of omeprazole. Coadministration of digoxin with esomeprazole is expected to increase the systemic exposure of digoxin. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored for increases in digoxin toxicity when digoxin is taken concomitantly with esomeprazole. 7.15 Antiretroviral Agents Concomitant use of atazanavir and nelfinavir with proton pump inhibitors such as esomeprazole is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. Omeprazole, the racemate of esomeprazole, has been reported to interact with some antiretroviral drugs. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Increased gastric pH during omeprazole treatment may change the absorption of the antiretroviral drug. Other possible interaction mechanisms are via CYP2C19. For some antiretroviral drugs, such as atazanavir and nelfinavir, decreased serum levels have been reported when given together with omeprazole. Following multiple doses of nelfinavir (1250 mg, twice daily) and omeprazole (40 mg once a day), AUC was decreased by 36% and 92%, Cmax by 37% and 89% and Cmin by 39% and 75% respectively for nelfinavir and main oxidative metabolite, hydroxy-t-butylamide (M8). Following multiple doses of atazanavir (400 mg, once a day) and omeprazole (40 mg, once a day, 2 hr before atazanavir), AUC was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. Concomitant administration with omeprazole and drugs such as atazanavir and nelfinavir is therefore not recommended. For other antiretroviral drugs, such as saquinavir, elevated serum levels have been reported with an increase in AUC by 82% in Cmax by 75% and in Cmin by 106% following multiple dosing of saquinavir/ritonavir (1000/100 mg) twice a day for 15 days with omeprazole 40 mg once a day co-administered on days 11 to 15. Therefore, clinical and laboratory monitoring for saquinavir toxicity is recommended during concurrent use with esomeprazole. Dose reduction of saquinavir should be considered from the safety perspective for individual patients. There are also some antiretroviral drugs of which unchanged serum levels have been reported when given with omeprazole. 7.16 Effects on Hepatic Metabolism/Cytochrome P-450 pathways Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that esomeprazole is not likely to inhibit CYPs 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4. No clinically relevant interactions with drugs metabolized by these CYP enzymes would be expected. Drug interaction studies have shown that esomeprazole does not have any clinically significant interactions with phenytoin, warfarin, quinidine, clarithromycin or amoxicillin. However, post-marketing reports of changes in prothrombin measures have been received among patients on concomitant warfarin and esomeprazole therapy. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. Esomeprazole may potentially interfere with CYP2C19, the major esomeprazole metabolizing enzyme. Co-administration of esomeprazole 30 mg and diazepam, a CYP2C19 substrate, resulted in a 45% decrease in clearance of diazepam. Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, such as voriconazole, may result in more than doubling of the esomeprazole exposure. Dose adjustment of esomeprazole is not normally required. Omeprazole acts as an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Omeprazole, given in doses of 40 mg daily for one week to 20 healthy subjects in cross-over study, increased Cmax and AUC of cilostazol by 18% and 26% respectively. Cmax and AUC of one of its active metabolites, 3,4-dihydrocilostazol, which has 4-7 times the activity of cilostazol, were increased by 29% and 69% respectively. Co-administration of cilostazol with esomeprazole is expected to increase concentrations of cilostazol and its above mentioned active metabolite. Therefore a dose reduction of cilostazol from 100 mg twice daily to 50 mg twice daily should be considered. Drugs known to induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as rifampin) may lead to decreased esomeprazole serum levels. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with St. John's Wort, an inducer of CYP3A4. In a cross-over study in 12 healthy male subjects, St John's Wort (300 mg three times daily for 14 days) significantly decreased the systemic exposure of omeprazole in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 37.5% and 37.9%, respectively) and extensive metabolizers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 49.6% and 43.9%, respectively). Avoid concomitant use of St. John's Wort or rifampin with VIMOVO. 7.17 Other Pharmacokinetic-based Interactions Co-administration of oral contraceptives, diazepam, phenytoin, or quinidine does not seem to change the pharmacokinetic profile of esomeprazole."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Several studies conducted with VIMOVO have shown no interaction between the two components, naproxen and esomeprazole. -Concomitant use of NSAIDs may reduce the antihypertensive effect of ACE Inhibitors, diuretics, and beta-blockers (7.1, 7.6, 7.11) -As with all NSAIDs caution is advised when cyclosporin is co-administered because of the increased risk of nephrotoxicity. (7.4) -Tacrolimus: Concomitant administration of esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. (7.5) -Concomitant use of NSAIDs increases lithium plasma levels (7.7) -Methotrexate: VIMOVO may increase serum levels of methotrexate (7.8) -Concomitant use of VIMOVO with warfarin may result in increased risk of bleeding complications. Monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (7.9) -Esomeprazole inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (eg, ketoconazole, iron salts, erlotinib and digoxin). Patients treated with VIMOVO and digoxin may need to be monitored for increases in digoxin toxicity (7.14) -Clopidogrel: esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, decreases exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel. (7.16, 12.3) 7.1 ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking VIMOVO concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.2 Aspirin VIMOVO can be administered with low-dose aspirin (<=325 mg/day) therapy. The concurrent use of aspirin and VIMOVO may increase the risk of serious adverse events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.4), Adverse Reactions (6), and Clinical Studies (14) ]. When naproxen is administered with doses of aspirin (>1 gram/day), its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. However, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.3 Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. 7.4 Cyclosporin As with all NSAIDs caution is advised when cyclosporin is co-administered because of the increased risk of nephrotoxicity. 7.5 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. 7.6 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely both for signs of renal failure, as well as to monitor to assure diuretic efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6, 5.7)]. 7.7 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.8 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. NSAIDs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.23)]. 7.9 Anticoagulants Naproxen decreases platelet aggregation and may prolong bleeding time. In addition, because warfarin and NSAIDs are highly protein bound, the free fraction of warfarin and naproxen may increase substantially in some patients. Concomitant use of VIMOVO and anticoagulants (such as warfarin, dicumarol and heparin) may result in increased risk of bleeding complications. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Post-marketing reports of changes in prothrombin measures have been reported among patients on concomitant warfarin and esomeprazole therapy. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 7.10 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs including COX-2 selective inhibitors. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.11 Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as sulphonylureas, hydantoins, and other NSAIDs. Patients simultaneously receiving VIMOVO and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other NSAIDs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. 7.12 Interactions With Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Drug-induced decrease in gastric acidity results in enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20) and Pharmacodynamics (12.2) ]. 7.13 Drug/Laboratory Test Interaction Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). 7.14 Interactions Related to Absorption Esomeprazole inhibits gastric acid secretion. Therefore, esomeprazole may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, iron salts and erlotinib can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with esomeprazole. Concomitant treatment with omeprazole (20 mg daily) and digoxin in healthy subjects increased the bioavailability of digoxin by 10% (30% in two subjects). Esomeprazole is an enantiomer of omeprazole. Coadministration of digoxin with esomeprazole is expected to increase the systemic exposure of digoxin. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored for increases in digoxin toxicity when digoxin is taken concomitantly with esomeprazole. 7.15 Antiretroviral Agents Concomitant use of atazanavir and nelfinavir with proton pump inhibitors such as esomeprazole is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. Omeprazole, the racemate of esomeprazole, has been reported to interact with some antiretroviral drugs. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Increased gastric pH during omeprazole treatment may change the absorption of the antiretroviral drug. Other possible interaction mechanisms are via CYP2C19. For some antiretroviral drugs, such as atazanavir and nelfinavir, decreased serum levels have been reported when given together with omeprazole. Following multiple doses of nelfinavir (1250 mg, twice daily) and omeprazole (40 mg once a day), AUC was decreased by 36% and 92%, Cmax by 37% and 89% and Cmin by 39% and 75% respectively for nelfinavir and main oxidative metabolite, hydroxy-t-butylamide (M8). Following multiple doses of atazanavir (400 mg, once a day) and omeprazole (40 mg, once a day, 2 hr before atazanavir), AUC was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. Concomitant administration with omeprazole and drugs such as atazanavir and nelfinavir is therefore not recommended. For other antiretroviral drugs, such as saquinavir, elevated serum levels have been reported with an increase in AUC by 82% in Cmax by 75% and in Cmin by 106% following multiple dosing of saquinavir/ritonavir (1000/100 mg) twice a day for 15 days with omeprazole 40 mg once a day co-administered on days 11 to 15. Therefore, clinical and laboratory monitoring for saquinavir toxicity is recommended during concurrent use with esomeprazole. Dose reduction of saquinavir should be considered from the safety perspective for individual patients. There are also some antiretroviral drugs of which unchanged serum levels have been reported when given with omeprazole. 7.16 Effects on Hepatic Metabolism/Cytochrome P-450 pathways Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that esomeprazole is not likely to inhibit CYPs 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4. No clinically relevant interactions with drugs metabolized by these CYP enzymes would be expected. Drug interaction studies have shown that esomeprazole does not have any clinically significant interactions with phenytoin, warfarin, quinidine, clarithromycin or amoxicillin. However, post-marketing reports of changes in prothrombin measures have been received among patients on concomitant warfarin and esomeprazole therapy. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. Esomeprazole may potentially interfere with CYP2C19, the major esomeprazole metabolizing enzyme. Co-administration of esomeprazole 30 mg and diazepam, a CYP2C19 substrate, resulted in a 45% decrease in clearance of diazepam. Clopidogrel Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition. Avoid concomitant administration of esomeprazole with clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole, a component of VIMOVO, consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ]. Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, such as voriconazole, may result in more than doubling of the esomeprazole exposure. Dose adjustment of esomeprazole is not normally required. Omeprazole acts as an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Omeprazole, given in doses of 40 mg daily for one week to 20 healthy subjects in cross-over study, increased Cmax and AUC of cilostazol by 18% and 26% respectively. Cmax and AUC of one of its active metabolites, 3,4-dihydrocilostazol, which has 4-7 times the activity of cilostazol, were increased by 29% and 69% respectively. Co-administration of cilostazol with esomeprazole is expected to increase concentrations of cilostazol and its above mentioned active metabolite. Therefore a dose reduction of cilostazol from 100 mg twice daily to 50 mg twice daily should be considered. Drugs known to induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as rifampin) may lead to decreased esomeprazole serum levels. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with St. John's Wort, an inducer of CYP3A4. In a cross-over study in 12 healthy male subjects, St John's Wort (300 mg three times daily for 14 days) significantly decreased the systemic exposure of omeprazole in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 37.5% and 37.9%, respectively) and extensive metabolizers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 49.6% and 43.9%, respectively). Avoid concomitant use of St. John's Wort or rifampin with VIMOVO. 7.17 Other Pharmacokinetic-based Interactions Co-administration of oral contraceptives, diazepam, phenytoin, or quinidine does not seem to change the pharmacokinetic profile of esomeprazole."$$
"Adverse reaction Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see Clinical Pharmacology). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn *, abdominal pain *, nausea, constipation *, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache *, dizziness *, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions *, ecchymoses *, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus *, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema *, palpitations General: dyspnea *, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in LT 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in LT 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria * Indices of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"adverse_reactions": [$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen daily (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidences of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1 to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1 to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through post-marketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through post-marketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis , hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis , pancreatitis, vomiting , colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis , esophagitis , peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary : jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia , leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia , hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia , muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulstions . Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis , asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria , skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda ( pseudopor-phyria ) or epidermolysis bullosa . If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, palpillitis , retrobulbar optic neuritis, palpilledema . Urogenital : glomerular nephritis, hematuria , hyperkalemia , interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary : hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital : cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen daily (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidences of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1 to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1 to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through post-marketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through post-marketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis , hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis , pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis , esophagitis , peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary : jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia , leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia , hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia , muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulstions . Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis , asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria , skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda ( pseudopor-phyria ) or epidermolysis bullosa . If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, palpillitis , retrobulbar optic neuritis, palpilledema . Urogenital : glomerular nephritis, hematuria , hyperkalemia , interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary : hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital : cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well\\302\\255monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling Porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well\\302\\255monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling Porphyria cutanea tarda(pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillarynecrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well\\302\\255monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling Porphyria cutanea tarda(pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillarynecrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see ). CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well\\302\\255monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: : heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Central Nervous System: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Dermatologic: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Special Senses: edema*, palpitations Cardiovascular: dyspnea*, thirst General: *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. flatulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes General: The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling Porphyria cutanea tarda(pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Dermatologic: Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillarynecrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Cardiovascular: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Gastrointestinal: hepatitis, liver failure Hepatobiliary: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic: weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Nervous System: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory: exfoliative dermatitis Dermatologic: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Special Senses: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital:"$$
"Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) orepidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) orepidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) orepidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) orepidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System:headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic:pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses:tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular:edema1, palpitations. General:dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General:abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole:anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular:congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal:gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary:jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic:eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional:hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System:inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory:eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic:alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) orepidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses:hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital:glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female):infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole:fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular:hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary:hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic:rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory:asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic:exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses:blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital:cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1 Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1 Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System:headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic:pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General:dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General:abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole:anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular:congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal:gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary:jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic:eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional:hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory:eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic:alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses:hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital:glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female):infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole:fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular:hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary:hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic:rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory:asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic:exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses:blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital:cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1 Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System:headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic:pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses:tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular:edema1, palpitations. General:dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole:anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular:congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal:gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary:jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic:eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional:hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System:inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory:eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic:alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses:hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital:glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female):infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole:fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular:hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary:hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic:rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory:asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic:exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses:blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital:cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1 Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System:headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic:pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses:tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular:edema1, palpitations. General:dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General:abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole:anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular:congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal:gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary:jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic:eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional:hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System:inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory:eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic:alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses:hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital:glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female):infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole:fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular:hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary:hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic:rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory:asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic:exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses:blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital:cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1 Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in less than1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in less than1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1 Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in Less than 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in Less than 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1 Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. Themost frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen,the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidenceof other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in less than 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactionsobserved through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction,systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda(pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in less than 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis, treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through post-marketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through post-marketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions , including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations. General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract, Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female) : infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn* , abdominal pain* , nausea* , constipation* , diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache* , dizziness* , drowsiness* , lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)* , skin eruptions* , ecchymoses* , sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus* , visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema* , palpitations General: dyspnea* , thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling Porphyria cutanea tarda(pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillarynecrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritisor osteoarthritisare listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous systemreactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System:headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic:pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses:tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular:edema*, palpitations General:dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:flatulence , gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General:abnormalrenal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure , vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal:gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice , abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia , leucopenia,melena , thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, asepticmeningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic:alopecia , urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerularnephritis , hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole:fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth , esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary:hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety , asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory:asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic:exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses:blurred vision , conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital:cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*,constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn *, abdominal pain *, nausea *, constipation *, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache *, dizziness *, drowsiness *, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions *, ecchymoses *, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus *, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema *, palpitations. General: dyspnea *, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Chrohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations. General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Chrohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations. General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding(sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Chrohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations. General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Chrohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn *, abdominal pain *, nausea *, constipation *, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache *, dizziness *, drowsiness *, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions *, ecchymoses *, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus *, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema *, palpitations. General: dyspnea *, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations. General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations. General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding(sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper and lower gatrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some causes have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (Female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuri"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper of lower gastrointestinal tract, Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation). Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn *, abdominal pain *, nausea *, constipation *, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache *, dizziness *, drowsiness *, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions *, ecchymoses *, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus *, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema *, palpitations General: dyspnea *, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal : inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary : jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female) : infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding(sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchym oses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritisor osteoarthritisare listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous systemreactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System:headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic:pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses:tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular:edema*, palpitations General:dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including:flatulence , gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General:abnormalrenal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure , vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation,bleeding(sometimesfatal,particularlyinthe elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis,pancreatitis, vomiting,colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice , abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia , leucopenia,melena , thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia , hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, asepticmeningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic:alopecia , urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerularnephritis , hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole:fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth , esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary:hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety , asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory:asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic:exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses:blurred vision , conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital:cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in less than1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in less than1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymosis*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences: including:flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormalrenal function, anemia, elevated liverenzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstuction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic:eosinophilia, leucopenia,melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, asepticmeningitis, cognitivedysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemiclupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar opticneuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerularnephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serumcreatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburnIncidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked., abdominal pain, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache, dizziness, drowsiness, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching), skin eruptions, ecchymoses, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema, palpitations General: dyspnea, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through post-marketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through post-marketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001 or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburnIncidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked., abdominal pain, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache, dizziness, drowsiness, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching), skin eruptions, ecchymoses, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema, palpitations General: dyspnea, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1 to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (Gl) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1 to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (Gl) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, Gl ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through post-marketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through post-marketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), abnormal liver function tests, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum fixed drug eruption, lichen planus pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (psuedoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001, or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONSAdverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1 to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (Gl) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching), skin eruptions, ecchymoses, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1 to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (Gl) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, Gl ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in less than 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through post-marketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through post-marketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, jaundice, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, abnormal liver function tests, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum fixed drug eruption, lichen planus pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (psuedoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in less than 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, hepatitis, eructation, liver failure Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see ). CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Central Nervous System: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Dermatologic: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Special Senses: edema1, palpitations. Cardiovascular: dyspnea1, thirst General: In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes General: The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema gastrointestinal bleeding and/or pancreatitis, vomiting, Gastrointestinal: perforation, hematemesis, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration jaundice, Hepatobiliary: abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia inability to concentrate, Nervous System: depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma skin rashes, Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) orepidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Cardiovascular: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Gastrointestinal: hepatitis, liver failure Hepatobiliary: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic: weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Nervous System: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory: exfoliative dermatitis Dermatologic: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Special Senses: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital: Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. 1"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see ). CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: : heartburn , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including 1 1 1 : headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Central Nervous System : pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Dermatologic : tinnitus , visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Special Senses 1 : edema , palpitations. Cardiovascular 1 : dyspnea1, thirst General In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. : flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including : abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes General The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. : anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Body as a Whole : congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Cardiovascular : gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Gastrointestinal : jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hepatobiliary : eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Hemic and Lymphatic : hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Metabolic and Nutritional : inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Nervous System : eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Respiratory : alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Dermatologic : hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Special Senses : glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Urogenital : infertility Reproduction (female) In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. : fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole : hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Cardiovascular : dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Gastrointestinal : hepatitis, liver failure Hepatobiliary : rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic : weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional : anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Nervous System : asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory : exfoliative dermatitis Dermatologic : blurred vision, conjunctivitis Special Senses : cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. 1"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see ). CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Central Nervous System: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Dermatologic: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Special Senses: edema*, palpitations Cardiovascular: dyspnea*, thirst General: *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes General: The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema gastrointestinal bleeding and/or pancreatitis, vomiting, Gastrointestinal: perforation, hematemesis, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration jaundice, Hepatobiliary: abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia inability to concentrate, Nervous System: depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma skin rashes, Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female) : infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Cardiovascular: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Gastrointestinal: hepatitis, liver failure Hepatobiliary: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic: weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Nervous System: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory: exfoliative dermatitis Dermatologic: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Special Senses: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see ). CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: heartburn , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation , diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: * * * * headache , dizziness , drowsiness , lightheadedness, vertigo Central Nervous System: * * * pruritus (itching) , skin eruptions , ecchymoses , sweating, purpura Dermatologic: * * * tinnitus , visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Special Senses: * edema , palpitations Cardiovascular: * dyspnea , thirst General: * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. * In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes General: The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema pancreatitis, vomiting, Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding(sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). jaundice, Hepatobiliary: abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia inability to concentrate, Nervous System: depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma skin rashes, Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Cardiovascular: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Gastrointestinal: hepatitis, liver failure Hepatobiliary: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic: weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Nervous System: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory: exfoliative dermatitis Dermatologic: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Special Senses: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see ). CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: heartburn , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation , diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: * * * * headache , dizziness , drowsiness , lightheadedness, vertigo Central Nervous System: * * * pruritus (itching) , skin eruptions , ecchymoses , sweating, purpura Dermatologic: * * * tinnitus , visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Special Senses: * edema , palpitations Cardiovascular: * dyspnea , thirst General: * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. * In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes General: The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema , pancreatitis, vomiting, Gastrointestinal : inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). jaundice, Hepatobiliary: abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia inability to concentrate, Nervous System: depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma skin rashes, Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Cardiovascular: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Gastrointestinal: hepatitis, liver failure Hepatobiliary: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic: weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Nervous System: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory: exfoliative dermatitis Dermatologic: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Special Senses: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen sodium in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching) *, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst * Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstruction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS As with all drugs in this class, the frequency and severity of adverse events depends on several factors: the dose of the drug and duration of treatment; the age, the sex, physical condition of the patient; any concurrent medical diagnoses or individual risk factors. The following adverse reactions are divided into three parts based on frequency and whether or not the possibility exists of a causal relationship between drug usage and these adverse events. In those reactions listed as "Probable Causal Relationship" there is at least one case for each adverse reaction where there is evidence to suggest that there is a causal relationship between drug usage and the reported event. The adverse reactions reported were based on the results from two double-blind controlled clinical trials of three months duration with an additional nine month open-label extension. A total of 542 patients received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets either in the double-blind period or in the nine month open-label extension. Of these 542 patients, 232 received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets, 167 were initially treated with Naprosyn(R) *** and 143 were initially treated with placebo. Adverse reactions reported by patients who received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets are shown by body system. Those adverse reactions observed with naproxen but not reported in controlled trials with NAPRELAN(R) Tablets are italicized. The most frequent adverse events from the double-blind and open-label clinical trials were headache (15%), followed by dyspepsia (14%), and flu syndrome (10%). The incidence of other adverse events occurring in 3% - 9% of the patients are marked with an asterisk. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. INCIDENCE GREATER THAN 1% (PROBABLE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP) Body as a Whole\\342\\200\\224Pain (back)*, pain*, infection*, fever, injury (accident), asthenia, pain chest, headache (15%), flu syndrome (10%). Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Nausea*, diarrhea*, constipation*, abdominal pain*, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting, dysphagia, dyspepsia (14%), heartburn*, stomatitis. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Anemia, ecchymosis. Respiratory\\342\\200\\224Pharyngitis*, rhinitis*, sinusitis*, bronchitis, cough increased. Renal\\342\\200\\224Urinary tract infection*, cystitis. Dermatologic\\342\\200\\224Skin rash*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, purpura. Metabolic and Nutrition\\342\\200\\224Peripheral edema, hyperglycemia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Dizziness, paresthesia, insomnia, drowsiness*, lightheadedness. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Hypertension, edema*, dyspnea*, palpitations. Musculoskeletal\\342\\200\\224Cramps (leg), myalgia, arthralgia, joint disorder, tendon disorder. Special Senses\\342\\200\\224Tinnitus*, hearing disturbances, visual disturbances. General\\342\\200\\224Thirst. INCIDENCE LESS THAN 1% (PROBABLE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP) Body as a Whole\\342\\200\\224Abscess, monilia, neck rigid, pain neck, abdomen enlarged, carcinoma, cellulitis, edema general, LE syndrome, malaise, mucous membrane disorder, allergic reaction, pain pelvic. Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Anorexia, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, eructation, GI hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage, stomatitis aphthous, stomatitis ulcer, ulcer mouth, ulcer stomach, periodontal abscess, cardiospasm, colitis, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, GI disorder, rectal disorder, tooth disorder, hepatosplenomegaly, liver function abnormality, melena, ulcer esophagus, hematemesis, jaundice, pancreatitis, necrosis. Renal\\342\\200\\224Dysmenorrhea, dysuria, kidney function abnormality, nocturia, prostate disorder, pyelonephritis, carcinoma breast, urinary incontinence, kidney calculus, kidney failure, menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, neoplasm breast, nephrosclerosis, hematuria, pain kidney, pyuria, urine abnormal, urinary frequency, urinary retention, uterine spasm, vaginitis, glomerular nephritis, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Leukopenia, bleeding time increased, eosinophilia, abnormal RBC, abnormal WBC, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Depression, anxiety, hypertonia, nervousness, neuralgia, neuritis, vertigo, amnesia, confusion, co-ordination, abnormal diplopia, emotional lability, hematoma subdural, paralysis, dream abnormalities, inability to concentrate, muscle weakness. Dermatologic: Angiodermatitis, herpes simplex, dry skin, sweating, ulcer skin, acne, alopecia, dermatitis contact, eczema, herpes zoster, nail disorder, skin necrosis, subcutaneous nodule, pruritus, urticaria, neoplasm skin, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions resembling porphyria cutaneous tarda, epidermolysis bullosa. Special Senses\\342\\200\\224Amblyopia, scleritis, cataract, conjunctivitis, deaf, ear disorder, keratoconjunctivitis, lacrimation disorder, otitis media, pain eye. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Angina pectoris, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, deep thrombophlebitis, vasodilation, vascular anomaly, arrhythmia, bundle branch block, abnormal ECG, heart failure right, hemorrhage, migraine, aortic stenosis, syncope, tachycardia, congestive heart failure. Respiratory\\342\\200\\224Asthma, dyspnea, lung edema, laryngitis, lung disorder, epistaxis, pneumonia, respiratory distress, respiratory disorder, eosinophilic pneumonitis. Musculoskeletal\\342\\200\\224Myasthenia, bone disorder, spontaneous bone fracture, fibrotendinitis, bone pain, ptosis, spasm general, bursitis. Metabolic and Nutrition\\342\\200\\224Creatinine increase, glucosuria, hypercholesteremia, albuminuria, alkalosis, BUN increased, dehydration, edema, glucose tolerance decrease, hyperuricemia, hypokalemia, SGOT increase, SGPT increase, weight decrease. General\\342\\200\\224Anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, hypoglycemia, pyrexia (chills and fevers). INCIDENCE LESS THAN 1% (CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP UNKNOWN) Other adverse reactions listed in the naproxen package label, but not reported by those who received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets are shown in italics. These observations are being listed as alerting information to the physician. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction. Dermatologic\\342\\200\\224Epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Non-peptic GI ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Vasculitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS As with all drugs in this class, the frequency and severity of adverse events depends on several factors: the dose of the drug and duration of treatment; the age, the sex, physical condition of the patient; any concurrent medical diagnoses or individual risk factors. The following adverse reactions are divided into three parts based on frequency and whether or not the possibility exists of a causal relationship between drug usage and these adverse events. In those reactions listed as "Probable Causal Relationship" there is at least one case for each adverse reaction where there is evidence to suggest that there is a causal relationship between drug usage and the reported event. The adverse reactions reported were based on the results from two double-blind controlled clinical trials of three months duration with an additional nine month open-label extension. A total of 542 patients received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets either in the double-blind period or in the nine month open-label extension. Of these 542 patients, 232 received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets, 167 were initially treated with Naprosyn(R)*** and 143 were initially treated with placebo. Adverse reactions reported by patients who received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets are shown by body system. Those adverse reactions observed with naproxen but not reported in controlled trials with NAPRELAN(R) Tablets are italicized. The most frequent adverse events from the double-blind and open-label clinical trials were headache (15%), followed by dyspepsia (14%), and flu syndrome (10%). The incidence of other adverse events occurring in 3% - 9% of the patients are marked with an asterisk. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. INCIDENCE GREATER THAN 1% (PROBABLE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP) Body as a Whole\\342\\200\\224Pain (back)*, pain*, infection*, fever, injury (accident), asthenia, pain chest, headache (15%), flu syndrome (10%). Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Nausea*, diarrhea*, constipation*, abdominal pain*, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting, dysphagia, dyspepsia (14%), heartburn*, stomatitis. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Anemia, ecchymosis. Respiratory\\342\\200\\224Pharyngitis*, rhinitis*, sinusitis*, bronchitis, cough increased. Renal\\342\\200\\224Urinary tract infection*, cystitis. Dermatologic\\342\\200\\224Skin rash*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, purpura. Metabolic and Nutrition\\342\\200\\224Peripheral edema, hyperglycemia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Dizziness, paresthesia, insomnia, drowsiness*, lightheadedness. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Hypertension, edema*, dyspnea*, palpitations. Musculoskeletal\\342\\200\\224Cramps (leg), myalgia, arthralgia, joint disorder, tendon disorder. Special Senses\\342\\200\\224Tinnitus*, hearing disturbances, visual disturbances. General\\342\\200\\224Thirst. INCIDENCE LESS THAN 1% (PROBABLE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP) Body as a Whole\\342\\200\\224Abscess, monilia, neck rigid, pain neck, abdomen enlarged, carcinoma, cellulitis, edema general, LE syndrome, malaise, mucous membrane disorder, allergic reaction, pain pelvic. Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Anorexia, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, eructation, GI hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage, stomatitis aphthous, stomatitis ulcer, ulcer mouth, ulcer stomach, periodontal abscess, cardiospasm, colitis, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, GI disorder, rectal disorder, tooth disorder, hepatosplenomegaly, liver function abnormality, melena, ulcer esophagus, hematemesis, jaundice, pancreatitis, necrosis. Renal\\342\\200\\224Dysmenorrhea, dysuria, kidney function abnormality, nocturia, prostate disorder, pyelonephritis, carcinoma breast, urinary incontinence, kidney calculus, kidney failure, menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, neoplasm breast, nephrosclerosis, hematuria, pain kidney, pyuria, urine abnormal, urinary frequency, urinary retention, uterine spasm, vaginitis, glomerular nephritis, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Leukopenia, bleeding time increased, eosinophilia, abnormal RBC, abnormal WBC, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Depression, anxiety, hypertonia, nervousness, neuralgia, neuritis, vertigo, amnesia, confusion, co-ordination, abnormal diplopia, emotional lability, hematoma subdural, paralysis, dream abnormalities, inability to concentrate, muscle weakness. Dermatologic: Angiodermatitis, herpes simplex, dry skin, sweating, ulcer skin, acne, alopecia, dermatitis contact, eczema, herpes zoster, nail disorder, skin necrosis, subcutaneous nodule, pruritus, urticaria, neoplasm skin, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions resembling porphyria cutaneous tarda, epidermolysis bullosa. Special Senses\\342\\200\\224Amblyopia, scleritis, cataract, conjunctivitis, deaf, ear disorder, keratoconjunctivitis, lacrimation disorder, otitis media, pain eye. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Angina pectoris, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, deep thrombophlebitis, vasodilation, vascular anomaly, arrhythmia, bundle branch block, abnormal ECG, heart failure right, hemorrhage, migraine, aortic stenosis, syncope, tachycardia, congestive heart failure. Respiratory\\342\\200\\224Asthma, dyspnea, lung edema, laryngitis, lung disorder, epistaxis, pneumonia, respiratory distress, respiratory disorder, eosinophilic pneumonitis. Musculoskeletal\\342\\200\\224Myasthenia, bone disorder, spontaneous bone fracture, fibrotendinitis, bone pain, ptosis, spasm general, bursitis. Metabolic and Nutrition\\342\\200\\224Creatinine increase, glucosuria, hypercholesteremia, albuminuria, alkalosis, BUN increased, dehydration, edema, glucose tolerance decrease, hyperuricemia, hypokalemia, SGOT increase, SGPT increase, weight decrease. General\\342\\200\\224Anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, hypoglycemia, pyrexia (chills and fevers). INCIDENCE LESS THAN 1% (CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP UNKNOWN) Other adverse reactions listed in the naproxen package label, but not reported by those who received NAPRELAN(R) Tablets are shown in italics. These observations are being listed as alerting information to the physician. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction. Dermatologic\\342\\200\\224Epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Non-peptic GI ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Vasculitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS As with all drugs in this class, the frequency and severity of adverse events depends on several factors: the dose of the drug and duration of treatment; the age, the sex, physical condition of the patient; any concurrent medical diagnoses or individual risk factors. The following adverse reactions are divided into three parts based on frequency and whether or not the possibility exists of a causal relationship between drug usage and these adverse events. In those reactions listed as "Probable Causal Relationship" there is at least one case for each adverse reaction where there is evidence to suggest that there is a causal relationship between drug usage and the reported event. The adverse reactions reported were based on the results from two double-blind controlled clinical trials of three months duration with an additional nine month open-label extension. A total of 542 patients received Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tablets either in the double-blind period or in the nine month open-label extension. Of these 542 patients, 232 received Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tablets, 167 were initially treated with Naprosyn(R)** and 143 were initially treated with placebo. Adverse reactions reported by patients who received Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tablets are shown by body system. Those adverse reactions observed with naproxen but not reported in controlled trials with Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tablets are italicized. The most frequent adverse events from the double-blind and open-label clinical trials were headache (15%), followed by dyspepsia (14%), and flu syndrome (10%). The incidence of other adverse events occurring in 3% - 9% of the patients are marked with an asterisk. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. INCIDENCE GREATER THAN 1% (PROBABLE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP) Body as a Whole\\342\\200\\224Pain (back)*, pain*, infection*, fever, injury (accident), asthenia, pain chest, headache (15%), flu syndrome (10%). Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Nausea*, diarrhea*, constipation*, abdominal pain*, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting, dysphagia, dyspepsia (14%), heartburn*, stomatitis. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Anemia, ecchymosis. Respiratory\\342\\200\\224Pharyngitis*, rhinitis*, sinusitis*, bronchitis, cough increased. Renal\\342\\200\\224Urinary tract infection*, cystitis. Dermatologic\\342\\200\\224Skin rash*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, purpura. Metabolic and Nutrition\\342\\200\\224Peripheral edema, hyperglycemia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Dizziness, paresthesia, insomnia, drowsiness*, lightheadedness. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Hypertension, edema*, dyspnea*, palpitations. Musculoskeletal\\342\\200\\224Cramps (leg), myalgia, arthralgia, joint disorder, tendon disorder. Special Senses\\342\\200\\224Tinnitus*, hearing disturbances, visual disturbances. General\\342\\200\\224Thirst. INCIDENCE LESS THAN 1% (PROBABLE CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP) Body as a Whole\\342\\200\\224Abscess, monilia, neck rigid, pain neck, abdomen enlarged, carcinoma, cellulitis, edema general, LE syndrome, malaise, mucous membrane disorder, allergic reaction, pain pelvic. Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Anorexia, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, eructation, GI hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage, stomatitis aphthous, stomatitis ulcer, ulcer mouth, ulcer stomach, periodontal abscess, cardiospasm, colitis, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, GI disorder, rectal disorder, tooth disorder, hepatosplenomegaly, liver function abnormality, melena, ulcer esophagus, hematemesis, jaundice, pancreatitis, necrosis. Renal\\342\\200\\224Dysmenorrhea, dysuria, kidney function abnormality, nocturia, prostate disorder, pyelonephritis, carcinoma breast, urinary incontinence, kidney calculus, kidney failure, menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, neoplasm breast, nephrosclerosis, hematuria, pain kidney, pyuria, urine abnormal, urinary frequency, urinary retention, uterine spasm, vaginitis, glomerular nephritis, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Leukopenia, bleeding time increased, eosinophilia, abnormal RBC, abnormal WBC, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Depression, anxiety, hypertonia, nervousness, neuralgia, neuritis, vertigo, amnesia, confusion, co-ordination, abnormal diplopia, emotional lability, hematoma subdural, paralysis, dream abnormalities, inability to concentrate, muscle weakness. Dermatologic: Angiodermatitis, herpes simplex, dry skin, sweating, ulcer skin, acne, alopecia, dermatitis contact, eczema, herpes zoster, nail disorder, skin necrosis, subcutaneous nodule, pruritus, urticaria, neoplasm skin, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions resembling porphyria cutaneous tarda, epidermolysis bullosa. Special Senses\\342\\200\\224Amblyopia, scleritis, cataract, conjunctivitis, deaf, ear disorder, keratoconjunctivitis, lacrimation disorder, otitis media, pain eye. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Angina pectoris, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, deep thrombophlebitis, vasodilation, vascular anomaly, arrhythmia, bundle branch block, abnormal ECG, heart failure right, hemorrhage, migraine, aortic stenosis, syncope, tachycardia, congestive heart failure. Respiratory\\342\\200\\224Asthma, dyspnea, lung edema, laryngitis, lung disorder, epistaxis, pneumonia, respiratory distress, respiratory disorder, eosinophilic pneumonitis. Musculoskeletal\\342\\200\\224Myasthenia, bone disorder, spontaneous bone fracture, fibrotendinitis, bone pain, ptosis, spasm general, bursitis. Metabolic and Nutrition\\342\\200\\224Creatinine increase, glucosuria, hypercholesteremia, albuminuria, alkalosis, BUN increased, dehydration, edema, glucose tolerance decrease, hyperuricemia, hypokalemia, SGOT increase, SGPT increase, weight decrease. General\\342\\200\\224Anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, hypoglycemia, pyrexia (chills and fevers). INCIDENCE LESS THAN 1% (CAUSAL RELATIONSHIP UNKNOWN) Other adverse reactions listed in the naproxen package label, but not reported by those who received Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tablets are shown in italics. These observations are being listed as alerting information to the physician. Hematologic\\342\\200\\224Aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia. Central Nervous System\\342\\200\\224Aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction. Dermatologic\\342\\200\\224Epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Gastrointestinal\\342\\200\\224Non-peptic GI ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis. Cardiovascular\\342\\200\\224Vasculitis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS As with all drugs in this class, the frequency and severity of adverse events depends on several factors: the dose of the drug and duration of treatment; the age, the sex, physical condition of the patient; any concurrent medical diagnoses or individual risk factors. The following adverse reactions are divided into three parts based on frequency and whether or not the possibility exists of a causal relationship between drug usage and these adverse events. In those reactions listed as "Probable Causal Relationship" there is at least one case for each adverse reaction where there is evidence to suggest that there is a causal relationship between drug usage and the reported event. The adverse reactions reported were based on the results from two double-blind controlled clinical trials of three months duration with an additional nine month open-label extension. A total of 542 patients received naproxen sodium extended-release tablets either in the double-blind period or in the nine month open-label extension. Of these 542 patients, 232 received naproxen sodium extended-release tablets, 167 were initially treated with naproxen and 143 were initially treated with placebo. Adverse reactions reported by patients who received naproxen sodium extended-release tablets are shown by body system. Those adverse reactions observed with naproxen but not reported in controlled trials with naproxen sodium extended-release tablets are italicized. The most frequent adverse events from the double-blind and open-label clinical trials were headache (15%), followed by dyspepsia (14%), and flu syndrome (10%). The incidence of other adverse events occurring in 3%-9% of the patients are marked with an asterisk. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. Incidence Greater Than 1% (Probable Causal Relationship) Body as a Whole \\342\\200\\224 Pain (back)*, pain*, infection*, fever, injury (accident), asthenia, pain chest, headache (15%), flu syndrome (10%). Gastrointestinal \\342\\200\\224 Nausea*, diarrhea*, constipation*, abdominal pain*, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting, dysphagia, dyspepsia (14%), heartburn*, stomatitis. Hematologic \\342\\200\\224 Anemia, ecchymosis. Respiratory \\342\\200\\224 Pharyngitis*, rhinitis*, sinusitis*, bronchitis, cough increased. Renal \\342\\200\\224 Urinary tract infection*, cystitis. Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 Skin rash*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, purpura. Metabolic and Nutrition \\342\\200\\224 Peripheral edema, hyperglycemia. Central Nervous System \\342\\200\\224 Dizziness, paresthesia, insomnia, drowsiness*, lightheadedness. Cardiovascular \\342\\200\\224 Hypertension, edema*, dyspnea*, palpitations. Musculoskeletal \\342\\200\\224 Cramps (leg), myalgia, arthralgia, joint disorder, tendon disorder. Special Senses \\342\\200\\224 Tinnitus*, hearing disturbances, visual disturbances. General \\342\\200\\224 Thirst. Incidence Less Than 1% (Probable Causal Relationship) Body as a Whole \\342\\200\\224 Abscess, monilia, neck rigid, pain neck, abdomen enlarged, carcinoma, cellulitis, edema general, LE syndrome, malaise, mucous membrane disorder, allergic reaction, pain pelvic. Gastrointestinal \\342\\200\\224 Anorexia, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, eructation, GI hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage, stomatitis aphthous, stomatitis ulcer, ulcer mouth, ulcer stomach, periodontal abscess, cardiospasm, colitis, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, GI disorder, rectal disorder, tooth disorder, hepatosplenomegaly, liver function abnormality, melena, ulcer esophagus, hematemesis, jaundice, pancreatitis, necrosis. Renal \\342\\200\\224 Dysmenorrhea, dysuria, kidney function abnormality, nocturia, prostate disorder, pyelonephritis, carcinoma breast, urinary incontinence, kidney calculus, kidney failure, menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, neoplasm breast, nephrosclerosis, hematuria, pain kidney, pyuria, urine abnormal, urinary frequency, urinary retention, uterine spasm, vaginitis, glomerular nephritis, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis. Hematologic \\342\\200\\224 Leukopenia, bleeding time increased, eosinophilia, abnormal RBC, abnormal WBC, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia. Central Nervous System \\342\\200\\224 Depression, anxiety, hypertonia, nervousness, neuralgia, neuritis, vertigo, amnesia, confusion, co-ordination, abnormal diplopia, emotional lability, hematoma subdural, paralysis, dream abnormalities, inability to concentrate, muscle weakness. Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 Angiodermatitis, herpes simplex, dry skin, sweating, ulcer skin, acne, alopecia, dermatitis contact, eczema, herpes zoster, nail disorder, skin necrosis, subcutaneous nodule, pruritus, urticaria, neoplasm skin, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions resembling porphyria cutaneous tarda, epidermolysis bullosa. Special Senses \\342\\200\\224 Amblyopia scleritis, cataract, conjunctivitis, deaf, ear disorder, keratoconjunctivitis, lacrimation disorder, otitis media, pain eye. Cardiovascular \\342\\200\\224 Angina pectoris, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, deep thrombophlebitis, vasodilation, vascular anomaly, arrhythmia, bundle branch block, abnormal ECG, heart failure right, hemorrhage, migraine, aortic stenosis, syncope, tachycardia, congestive heart failure. Respiratory \\342\\200\\224 Asthma, dyspnea, lung edema, laryngitis, lung disorder, epistaxis, pneumonia, respiratory distress, respiratory disorder, eosinophilic pneumonitis. Musculoskeletal \\342\\200\\224 Myasthenia, bone disorder, spontaneous bone fracture, fibrotendinitis, bone pain, ptosis, spasm general, bursitis. Metabolic and Nutrition \\342\\200\\224 Creatinine increase, glucosuria, hypercholesteremia, albuminuria, alkalosis, BUN increased, dehydration, edema, glucose tolerance decrease, hyperuricemia, hypokalemia, SGOT increase, SGPT increase, weight decrease. General \\342\\200\\224 Anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, hypoglycemia, pyrexia (chills and fevers). Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Unknown) Other adverse reactions listed in the naproxen package label, but not reported by those who received naproxen sodium extended-release tablets are shown in italics. These observations are being listed as alerting information to the physician. Hematologic \\342\\200\\224 Aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia. Central Nervous System \\342\\200\\224 Aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction. Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 Epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Gastrointestinal \\342\\200\\224 Non-peptic GI ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis. Cardiovascular \\342\\200\\224 Vasculitis."$$
"Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see ). CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: : heartburn , abdominal pain , nausea , constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including111 : headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Central Nervous System : pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Dermatologic : tinnitus , visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Special Senses1 : edema , palpitations. Cardiovascular1 : dyspnea1, thirst General In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. : flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including : abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes General The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. : anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Body as a Whole : congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Cardiovascular : gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, peptic ulceration Gastrointestinal : jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hepatobiliary : eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Hemic and Lymphatic : hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Metabolic and Nutritional : inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Nervous System : eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Respiratory : alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Dermatologic : hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Special Senses : glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Urogenital : infertility Reproduction (female) In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. : fever infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole : hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Cardiovascular : dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Gastrointestinal : hepatitis, liver failure Hepatobiliary : rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic : weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional : anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Nervous System : asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory : exfoliative dermatitis Dermatologic : blurred vision, conjunctivitis Special Senses : cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occuring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. 1"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn1, abdominal pain1, nausea1, constipation1, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache1, dizziness1, drowsiness1, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)1, skin eruptions1, ecchymoses1, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus1, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema1, palpitations. General: dyspnea1, thirst In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic: eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythemia multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematosus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) orepidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria 1Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well\\302\\255monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymoses*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: flatulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormal renal function, anemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in <1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole:anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular:congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal:gastrointestinal bleeding and/or perforation, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease), nonpeptic gastrointestinal ulceration, ulcerative stomatitis, esophagitis, peptic ulceration Hepatobiliary:jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic:eosinophilia, leucopenia, melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional:hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System:inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, aseptic meningitis, cognitive dysfunction, convulsions Respiratory:eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemic lupus erythematoses, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling Porphyria cutanea tarda(pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses:hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, papilledema Urogenital:glomerular nephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillarynecrosis, raised serum creatinine Reproduction (female):infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in <1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"Adverse Reactions Section Adverse reactions reported in controlled clinical trials in 960 patients treated for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis are listed below. In general, reactions in patients treated chronically were reported 2 to 10 times more frequently than they were in short-term studies in the 962 patients treated for mild to moderate pain or for dysmenorrhea. The most frequent complaints reported related to the gastrointestinal tract. A clinical study found gastrointestinal reactions to be more frequent and more severe in rheumatoid arthritis patients taking daily doses of 1500 mg naproxen compared to those taking 750 mg naproxen (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). In controlled clinical trials with about 80 pediatric patients and in well-monitored, open-label studies with about 400 pediatric patients with juvenile arthritis treated with naproxen, the incidence of rash and prolonged bleeding times were increased, the incidence of gastrointestinal and central nervous system reactions were about the same, and the incidence of other reactions were lower in pediatric patients than in adults. In patients taking naproxen in clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse experiences in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences, including: heartburn*, abdominal pain*, nausea*, constipation*, diarrhea, dyspepsia, stomatitis Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness*, drowsiness*, lightheadedness, vertigo Dermatologic: pruritus (itching)*, skin eruptions*, ecchymosis*, sweating, purpura Special Senses: tinnitus*, visual disturbances, hearing disturbances Cardiovascular: edema*, palpitations General: dyspnea*, thirst *Incidence of reported reaction between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in less than 3% of the patients are unmarked. In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in approximately 1% to 10% of patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Experiences: including:flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), vomiting General: abnormalrenal function, anemia, elevated liverenzymes, increased bleeding time, rashes The following are additional adverse experiences reported in < 1% of patients taking naproxen during clinical trials and through postmarketing reports. Those adverse reactions observed through postmarketing reports are italicized. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema, menstrual disorders, pyrexia (chills and fever) Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure, vasculitis, hypertension, pulmonary edema Gastrointestinal: inflammation, bleeding (sometimes fatal, particularly in the elderly), ulceration, perforation and obstuction of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Esophagitis, stomatitis, hematemesis, pancreatitis, vomiting, colitis, exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease). Hepatobiliary: jaundice, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis (some cases have been fatal) Hemic and Lymphatic:eosinophilia, leucopenia,melena, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia Nervous System: inability to concentrate, depression, dream abnormalities, insomnia, malaise, myalgia, muscle weakness, asepticmeningitis, cognitivedysfunction, convulsions Respiratory: eosinophilic pneumonitis, asthma Dermatologic: alopecia, urticaria, skin rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruption, lichen planus, pustular reaction, systemiclupus erythematosus, bullous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitive dermatitis, photosensitivity reactions, including rare cases resembling porphyria cutanea tarda (pseudoporphyria) or epidermolysis bullosa. If skin fragility, blistering or other symptoms suggestive of pseudoporphyria occur, treatment should be discontinued and the patient monitored. Special Senses: hearing impairment, corneal opacity, papillitis, retrobulbar opticneuritis, papilledema Urogenital: glomerularnephritis, hematuria, hyperkalemia, interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, renal disease, renal failure, renal papillary necrosis, raised serumcreatinine Reproduction (female): infertility In patients taking NSAIDs, the following adverse experiences have also been reported in < 1% of patients. Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis, anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular: hypertension, tachycardia, syncope, arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction Gastrointestinal:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, glossitis, eructation Hepatobiliary: hepatitis, liver failure Hemic and Lymphatic: rectal bleeding, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, convulsions, coma, hallucinations Respiratory: asthma, respiratory depression, pneumonia Dermatologic: exfoliative dermatitis Special Senses: blurred vision, conjunctivitis Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria Urogenital: cystitis, dysuria, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions reported below are specific to the clinical trials with TREXIMET. See also the full prescribing information for naproxen and sumatriptan products. Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials Table 2 lists adverse events that occurred in 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials evaluating patients who took at least 1 dose of study drug. Only events that occurred at a frequency of 2% or more with TREXIMET and were more frequent than in the placebo group are included in Table 2. The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these frequency estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 2. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Reported by at Least 2% of Patients in 2 Controlled Migraine Trialsa Adverse Event Percent of Patients Reporting TREXIMET (n = 737) Placebo (n = 752) Sumatriptan 85 mg (n = 735) Naproxen Sodium 500 mg (n = 732) Nervous system disorders Dizziness 4 2 2 2 Somnolence 3 2 2 2 Paresthesia 2 <1 2 <1 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 3 1 3 <1 Dyspepsia 2 1 2 1 Dry mouth 2 1 2 <1 Pain and other pressure sensations Chest discomfort/chest pain 3 <1 2 1 Neck/throat/jaw pain/tightness/pressure 3 1 3 1 aEvents that occurred at a frequency of 2% or more in the group treated with TREXIMET and that occurred more frequently in the group treated with TREXIMET than in the placebo group. Other events that occurred in more than 1% of patients receiving TREXIMET and occurred at a frequency greater than the placebo group included asthenia, feeling hot, muscle tightness, and palpitations. TREXIMET was generally well tolerated. Most adverse reactions were mild and transient. The incidence of adverse events in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender or age of the patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Migraine Clinical Trials Associated With the Administration of TREXIMET The occurrence of less commonly reported adverse clinical events is presented in this section. Because the reports include events observed in an open-label, long-term safety study in which TREXIMET was used as needed for up to 12 months, the role of TREXIMET cannot be reliably determined. Furthermore, variability associated with adverse event reporting, the terminology used to describe adverse events, etc., limit the value of quantitative frequency estimates provided. Event frequencies are calculated as the number of patients who used TREXIMET and reported an event divided by the total number of patients (N = 3,302) exposed to TREXIMET. Events listed in the previous table and text are not included below. Those events described too generally to be informative or those unlikely to be associated with the use of TREXIMET are excluded. Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions: frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients, infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1,000 patients, and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1/1,000 patients. Blood and Lymphatic Disorders: Infrequent was lymphadenopathy. Rare were anemia, ecchymosis, leukopenia. Cardiac Disorders: Infrequent was tachycardia. Rare were acute coronary syndrome, cardiac flutter, congestive cardiac failure, right ventricular failure, ventricular extrasystoles. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Infrequent were ear pain, tinnitus. Rare were motion sickness, vertigo. Endocrine, Metabolic, and Nutrition Disorders: Rare were diabetes mellitus, goiter, hypoglycemia, hypothyroidism. Eye Disorders: Infrequent was conjunctivitis. Rare were cataract, conjunctival hemorrhage, visual disturbance. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Frequent was abdominal pain. Infrequent were abdominal distention, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dysphagia, flatulence, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease, vomiting. Rare were colitis, diverticulitis, gastric ulcer, irritable bowel syndrome, oral mucosal blistering, swollen tongue. General Disorders: Frequent was fatigue. Infrequent were feeling jittery, lethargy, malaise, peripheral edema, pyrexia, temperature intolerance, thirst. Rare was difficulty in walking. Hepatobiliary Disorders: Rare was biliary colic. Infections and Infestations: Rare were kidney infection, pneumonia, sepsis, staphylococcal infection, viral myocarditis. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: Infrequent were arthralgia, back pain, muscular weakness, myalgia, sensation of heaviness. Nervous System Disorders: Infrequent were burning sensation, disturbance of attention, insomnia, mental impairment, tremor. Rare were aphasia, facial palsy, impairment of psychomotor skills, sedation. Psychiatric Disorders: Infrequent were anxiety, depression, irritability, nervousness. Rare were disorientation, panic attack. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Infrequent was nephrolithiasis. Rare was renal insufficiency. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: Infrequent were asthma, cough, dyspnea, oropharyngeal swelling. Rare was pleurisy. Skin and Subcutaneous Disorders: Infrequent were facial swelling, hyperhydrosis, pruritus, rash, urticaria. Rare was systemic lupus erythematosus. Vascular Disorders: Infrequent were flushing, hot flush, hypertension. Rare were epistaxis, peripheral coldness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions reported below are specific to the clinical trials with TREXIMET. See also the full prescribing information for naproxen and sumatriptan products. Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials Table 2 lists adverse events that occurred in 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials evaluating patients who took at least 1 dose of study drug. Only events that occurred at a frequency of 2% or more with TREXIMET and were more frequent than in the placebo group are included in Table 2. The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population. In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials, these frequency estimates may not apply, as the conditions of use, reporting behavior, and the kinds of patients treated may differ. Table 2. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Reported by at Least 2% of Patients in 2 Controlled Migraine Trialsa aEvents that occurred at a frequency of 2% or more in the group treated with TREXIMET and that occurred more frequently in the group treated with TREXIMET than in the placebo group. Adverse Event Percent of Patients Reporting TREXIMET(n = 737) Placebo(n = 752) Sumatriptan 85 mg(n = 735) Naproxen Sodium 500 mg(n = 732) Nervous system disorders Dizziness 4 2 2 2 Somnolence 3 2 2 2 Paresthesia 2 <1 2 <1 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 3 1 3 <1 Dyspepsia 2 1 2 1 Dry mouth 2 1 2 <1 Pain and other pressure sensations Chest discomfort/chest pain 3 <1 2 1 Neck/throat/jaw pain/tightness/pressure 3 1 3 1 Other events that occurred in more than 1% of patients receiving TREXIMET and occurred at a frequency greater than the placebo group included asthenia, feeling hot, muscle tightness, and palpitations. TREXIMET was generally well tolerated. Most adverse reactions were mild and transient. The incidence of adverse events in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender or age of the patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events. Other Events Observed in Migraine Clinical Trials Associated With the Administration of TREXIMET The occurrence of less commonly reported adverse clinical events is presented in this section. Because the reports include events observed in an open-label, long-term safety study in which TREXIMET was used as needed for up to 12 months, the role of TREXIMET cannot be reliably determined. Furthermore, variability associated with adverse event reporting, the terminology used to describe adverse events, etc., limit the value of quantitative frequency estimates provided. Event frequencies are calculated as the number of patients who used TREXIMET and reported an event divided by the total number of patients (N = 3,302) exposed to TREXIMET. Events listed in the previous table and text are not included below. Those events described too generally to be informative or those unlikely to be associated with the use of TREXIMET are excluded. Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions: frequent adverse events are those occurring in at least 1/100 patients, infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1/100 to 1/1,000 patients, and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1/1,000 patients. Blood and Lymphatic Disorders: Infrequent was lymphadenopathy. Rare were anemia, ecchymosis, leukopenia. Cardiac Disorders: Infrequent was tachycardia. Rare were acute coronary syndrome, cardiac flutter, congestive cardiac failure, right ventricular failure, ventricular extrasystoles. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Infrequent were ear pain, tinnitus. Rare were motion sickness, vertigo. Endocrine, Metabolic, and Nutrition Disorders: Rare were diabetes mellitus, goiter, hypoglycemia, hypothyroidism. Eye Disorders: Infrequent was conjunctivitis. Rare were cataract, conjunctival hemorrhage, visual disturbance. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Frequent was abdominal pain. Infrequent were abdominal distention, constipation, diarrhea, dysgeusia, dysphagia, flatulence, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease, vomiting. Rare were colitis, diverticulitis, gastric ulcer, irritable bowel syndrome, oral mucosal blistering, swollen tongue. General Disorders: Frequent was fatigue. Infrequent were feeling jittery, lethargy, malaise, peripheral edema, pyrexia, temperature intolerance, thirst. Rare was difficulty in walking. Hepatobiliary Disorders: Rare was biliary colic. Infections and Infestations: Rare were kidney infection, pneumonia, sepsis, staphylococcal infection, viral myocarditis. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: Infrequent were arthralgia, back pain, muscular weakness, myalgia, sensation of heaviness. Nervous System Disorders: Infrequent were burning sensation, disturbance of attention, insomnia, mental impairment, tremor. Rare were aphasia, facial palsy, impairment of psychomotor skills, sedation. Psychiatric Disorders: Infrequent were anxiety, depression, irritability, nervousness. Rare were disorientation, panic attack. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Infrequent was nephrolithiasis. Rare was renal insufficiency. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: Infrequent were asthma, cough, dyspnea, oropharyngeal swelling. Rare was pleurisy. Skin and Subcutaneous Disorders: Infrequent were facial swelling, hyperhydrosis, pruritus, rash, urticaria. Rare was systemic lupus erythematosus. Vascular Disorders: Infrequent were flushing, hot flush, hypertension. Rare were epistaxis, peripheral coldness."$$
"Drug Interaction ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS or NAPROSYN Suspension is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS or NAPROSYN Suspension is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS and NAPROSYN Suspension can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see Warnings: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug InteractionsNaproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Due to the gastric pH elevating effects of H2-blockers, sucralfate and intensive antacid therapy, concomitant administration of EC-NAPROSYN is not recommended. Drug/Laboratory Test InteractionNaproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). CarcinogenesisA 2-year study was performed in rats to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of naproxen at rat doses of 8, 16, and 24 mg/kg/day (50, 100, and 150 mg/m2). The maximum dose used was 0.28 times the systemic exposure to humans at the recommended dose. No evidence of tumorigenicity was found. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category CReproduction studies have been performed in rats at 20 mg/kg/day (125 mg/m2/day, 0.23 times the human systemic exposure), rabbits at 20 mg/kg/day (220 mg/m2/day, 0.27 times the human systemic exposure), and mice at 170 mg/kg/day (510 mg/m2/day, 0.28 times the human systemic exposure) with no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to the drug. However, animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS and NAPROSYN Suspension should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nonteratogenic EffectsThere is some evidence to suggest that when inhibitors of prostaglandin synthesis are used to delay preterm labor there is an increased risk of neonatal complications such as necrotizing enterocolitis, patent ductus arteriosus and intracranial hemorrhage. Naproxen treatment given in late pregnancy to delay parturition has been associated with persistent pulmonary hypertension, renal dysfunction and abnormal prostaglandin E levels in preterm infants. Because of the known effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during pregnancy (particularly late pregnancy) should be avoided. Labor and DeliveryIn rat studies with NSAIDs, as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, an increased incidence of dystocia, delayed parturition, and decreased pup survival occurred. Naproxen-containing products are not recommended in labor and delivery because, through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect, naproxen may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions, thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage. The effects of NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS and NAPROSYN Suspension on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown. Nursing MothersThe naproxen anion has been found in the milk of lactating women at a concentration equivalent to approximately 1% of maximum naproxen concentration in plasma. Because of the possible adverse effects of prostaglandin-inhibiting drugs on neonates, use in nursing mothers should be avoided. Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established. Pediatric dosing recommendations for juvenile arthritis are based on well-controlled studies (see Dosage and Administration). There are no adequate effectiveness or dose-response data for other pediatric conditions, but the experience in juvenile arthritis and other use experience have established that single doses of 2.5 to 5 mg/kg (as naproxen suspension, see Dosage and Administration ), with total daily dose not exceeding 15 mg/kg/day, are well tolerated in pediatric patients over 2 years of age. Geriatric UseStudies indicate that although total plasma concentration of naproxen is unchanged, the unbound plasma fraction of naproxen is increased in the elderly. Caution is advised when high doses are required and some adjustment of dosage may be required in elderly patients. As with other drugs used in the elderly, it is prudent to use the lowest effective dose. Experience indicates that geriatric patients may be particularly sensitive to certain adverse effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Elderly or debilitated patients seem to tolerate peptic ulceration or bleeding less well when these events do occur. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in the geriatric population (see Warnings). Naproxen is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function. Geriatric patients may be at a greater risk for the development of a form of renal toxicity precipitated by reduced prostaglandin formation during administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (see Warnings: Renal Effects)."$$
"Drug Interactions"$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen delayed-release tablets, administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. WARNINGS: Renal Effects Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin\\302\\255type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Due to the gastric pH elevating effects of H2-blockers, sucralfate and intensive antacid therapy, concomitant administration of naproxen delayed-release tablets is not recommended."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen delayed-release tablets, administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin\\302\\255type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Due to the gastric pH elevating effects of H2-blockers, sucralfate and intensive antacid therapy, concomitant administration of naproxen delayed-release tablets is not recommended."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen or naproxen sodium tablet is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen or naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen and naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. WARNINGS: Renal Effects Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxycorticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA).",$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen or naproxen sodium tablet is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen or naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen and naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxycorticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA).",$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate : Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin: When naproxen as naproxen sodium is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine : As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics: Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteriodal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen sodium is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP is not altered. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seeWARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seeWARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets, administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin\\302\\255type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets, administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Tablets, USP is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Tablets, USP is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Tablets, USP can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function.",$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantlywith ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Tablets, USP is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Tablets, USP is not altered. Theclinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended becauseof the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Tablets, USP can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients.This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs ofrenal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy.Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renalclearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithiumare administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have beenreported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be usedwhen NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drugalone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions havebeen seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants,sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed foradjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers.Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Tablets, USP is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Tablets, USP is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Tablets, USP can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seeWARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Tablets, USP is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Tablets, USP is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Tablets, USP can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA).",$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Tablets, USP is administered with aspirin, its protein bindings is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Tablets, USP is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Tablets, USP can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seeWARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen delayed-release tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium, and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that naproxen can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions: ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that naproxen can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRls) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administed concomintantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensiveeffect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesiumoxide or aluminumhydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen can reduce the natriureticeffect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis. During concomitant therapywith NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS : Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administed concomintantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarintype anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylureashould be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen containing products and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAID's the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on Gl bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious Gl bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteriodal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen sodium tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen sodium tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant andministration of naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium, and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When NAPRELAN(R) is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free NAPRELAN(R) is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that NAPRELAN(R) can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When NAPRELAN(R) is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free NAPRELAN(R) is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that NAPRELAN(R) can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tablets is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tabletsis not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Sodium Controlled Release Tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When naproxen sodium extended-release tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium extended-release tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium extended-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS or NAPROSYN Suspension is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS or NAPROSYN Suspension is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NAPROSYN, EC-NAPROSYN, ANAPROX, ANAPROX DS and NAPROSYN Suspension can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen sodium is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. WARNINGS: Renal Effects Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA)."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen sodium is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastriontestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen sodium is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA)."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen sodium is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA)."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interaction Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). Carcinogenesis A 2-year study was performed in rats to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of naproxen at rat doses of 8, 16, and 24 mg/kg/day (50, 100, and 150 mg/m 2). The maximum dose used was 0.28 times the systemic exposure to humans at the recommended dose. No evidence of tumorigenicity was found."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interaction Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). Carcinogenesis A 2-year study was performed in rats to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of naproxen at rat doses of 8, 16, and 24 mg/kg/day (50, 100, and 150 mg/m2). The maximum dose used was 0.28 times the systemic exposure to humans at the recommended dose. No evidence of tumorigenicity was found."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen or naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen and naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen or naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen and naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-Inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen delayed-release tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see , ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. WARNINGS Renal Effects Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium, and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-Inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen delayed-release tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen delayed-release tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen delayed-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium, and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers(ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBsmay result in deterioration of renal function,includingpossibleacuterenalfailure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesiumoxide or aluminumhydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen can reduce the natriureticeffect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis. During concomitant therapywith NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS : Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administed concomintantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarintype anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylureashould be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function . Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen sodium is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-Inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen sodium tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-Inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen sodium tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen sodium tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen sodium and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-Inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium, and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-Inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propanolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium, and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other non-steroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propranolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). Carcinogenesis A 2-year study was performed in rats to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of naproxen at rat doses of 8, 16, and 24 mg/kg/day (50, 100, and 150 mg/m 2). The maximum dose used was 0.28 times the systemic exposure to humans at the recommended dose. No evidence of tumorigenicity was found."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propranolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen tablets is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). Carcinogenesis A 2-year study was performed in rats to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of naproxen at rat doses of 8, 16, and 24 mg/kg/day (50, 100, and 150 mg/m2). The maximum dose used was 0.28 times the systemic exposure to humans at the recommended dose. No evidence of tumorigenicity was found."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB's) NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers(including propranolo). Monitor patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandinsynthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarintype anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly."$$
"Drug Interactions Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors/Angiotensin Receptor Blockers NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propranolol). Monitor patients taking NSAIDS concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta blockers for changes in blood pressure. In addition, in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor these patients closely for signs of worsening renal function. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as Naproxen Oral Suspension is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Naproxen Oral Suspension is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that Naproxen Oral Suspension can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs."$$
"Drug Interactions Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors: The use of TREXIMET in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions and CONTRAINDICATIONS). MAO-A inhibitors reduce sumatriptan clearance, significantly increasing systemic exposure. In patients taking MAO-A inhibitors, sumatriptan plasma levels attained after treatment with recommended doses are 7-fold higher following oral administration than those obtained under other conditions. Ergot-Containing Drugs: Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because there is a theoretical basis that these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (e.g., dihydroergotamine, methysergide) and TREXIMET within 24 hours of each other should be avoided (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Methotrexate: Caution should be used if TREXIMET is administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Naproxen sodium and other NSAIDs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model, possibly increasing the toxicity of methotrexate. Concomitant administration of some NSAIDs with high-dose methotrexate therapy has been reported to elevate and prolong serum methotrexate levels, resulting in deaths from severe hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Aspirin: When naproxen is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAID-containing products, concomitant administration of TREXIMET and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome: Cases of life-threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of SSRIs or SNRIs and triptans (see WARNINGS: Serotonin Syndrome). Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. The use of TREXIMET in patients who are receiving ACE inhibitors may potentiate renal disease states (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects). Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when TREXIMET and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Probenecid: Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Propranolol and Other Beta-Blockers: Propranolol 80 mg given twice daily had no significant effect on sumatriptan pharmacokinetics. Naproxen and other NSAIDs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on gastrointestinal bleeding are synergistic, such that patients taking both drugs have a higher risk of serious gastrointestinal bleeding than patients taking either drug alone."$$
"Interactions",$$
"Interactions Drug interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Antacids and Sucralfate Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Aspirin When naproxen as naproxen or naproxen sodium tablet is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free naproxen or naproxen sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of naproxen and naproxen sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cholestyramine As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that naproxen and naproxen sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Naproxen, naproxen sodium and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been reported to reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate in an animal model. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. No significant interactions have been observed in clinical studies with naproxen and coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, caution is advised since interactions have been seen with other nonsteroidal agents of this class. The free fraction of warfarin may increase substantially in some subjects and naproxen interferes with platelet function. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Other Information Concerning Drug Interactions Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Naproxen and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol and other beta-blockers. Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Drug/laboratory test interactions Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Although 17-hydroxycorticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA).",$$
"Warnings and Precautions CARDIOVASCULAR EFFECTS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID does increase the risk of serious GI events (see Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation). Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Hypertension NSAIDs, including Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs, including Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention, edema, and peripheral edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs. Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention, hypertension, or heart failure. Since each Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP contains 25 mg or 50 mg of sodium (about 1 mEq per each 250 mg of naproxen), this should be considered in patients whose overall intake of sodium must be severely restricted. Gastrointestinal Effects- Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients, who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy, is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. The utility of periodic laboratory monitoring has not been demonstrated, nor has it been adequately assessed. Only 1 in 5 patients who develop a serious GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. NSAIDs should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver disfunction, salt depletion, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state (see WARNINGS: Advanced Renal Disease). Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP. Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS: Preexisting Asthma). Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Pregnancy In late pregnancy, as with other NSAIDs, Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus. PRECAUTIONS General Naproxen-containing products such as Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, and other naproxen products should not be used concomitantly since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxen anion. Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency. Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation. Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids and the patient should be observed closely for any evidence of adverse effects, including adrenal insufficiency and exacerbation of symptoms of arthritis. Patients with initial hemoglobin values of 10 g or less who are to receive a long-term therapy should have hemoglobin values determined periodically. The pharmacological activity of Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, noninflammatory painful conditions. Because of adverse eye findings in animal studies with drugs of this class, it is recommended that ophthalmic studies be carried out if any change or disturbance in vision occurs. Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of patients taking NSAIDs including Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP. Hepatic abnormalities may be the results of hypersensitivity rather than direct toxicity. These laboratory abnormalities may progress, may remain essentially unchanged, or may be transient with continued therapy. The SGPT (ALT) test is probably the most sensitive indicator of liver dysfunction. Notable elevations of ALT or AST (approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with NSAIDs. In addition, rare cases of severe hepatic reactions, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis and hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes have been reported. A patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP. If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP should be discontinued. Chronic alcoholic liver disease and probably other diseases with decreased or abnormal plasma proteins (albumin) reduce the total plasma concentration of naproxen, but the plasma concentration of unbound naproxen is increased. Caution is advised when high doses are required and some adjustment of dosage may be required in these patients. It is prudent to use the lowest effective dose. Hematological Effects Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs, including Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. Patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs, including Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP, should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible. Patients receiving Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants, should be carefully monitored. Preexisting Asthma: Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, Naproxen Sodium Tablets, USP should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma."$$
