"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Tolerance: Excessive use may lead to tolerance (5.1). 5.1 Tolerance Excessive use may lead to the development of tolerance. Only the smallest number of doses required for effective relief of the acute anginal attack should be used [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2)]. As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops, the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance, although still observable, is reduced. 5.2 Hypotension Severe hypotension, particularly with upright posture, may occur even with small doses of nitroglycerin. The drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume-depleted or who, for whatever reason, are already hypotensive. Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris. The benefits of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established. If one elects to use Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol in these conditions, careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used because of the possibility of hypotension and tachycardia. 5.3 Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 5.4 Headache Nitroglycerin produces dose-related headaches, which may be severe. Tolerance to headaches occurs."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Tolerance: Excessive use may lead to tolerance (5.1). 5.1 Tolerance Excessive use may lead to the development of tolerance. Only the smallest number of doses required for effective relief of the acute anginal attack should be used [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2)]. As tolerance to other forms of nitroglycerin develops, the effect of sublingual nitroglycerin on exercise tolerance, although still observable, is reduced. 5.2 Hypotension Severe hypotension, particularly with upright posture, may occur even with small doses of nitroglycerin. The drug should therefore be used with caution in patients who may be volume-depleted or who, for whatever reason, are already hypotensive. Hypotension induced by nitroglycerin may be accompanied by paradoxical bradycardia and increased angina pectoris. The benefits of NitroMist in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established. If one elects to use NitroMist in these conditions, careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used because of the possibility of hypotension and tachycardia. 5.3 Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Nitrate therapy may aggravate the angina caused by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 5.4 Headache Nitroglycerin produces dose-related headaches, which may be severe. Tolerance to headaches occurs."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are headache, flushing, hypotension, and syncope (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Akrimax Pharmaceuticals at 1-888 383 1733 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch/report.htm . 6.1 Headache Headache, which may be severe and persistent, may occur immediately after nitroglycerin use. 6.2 Flushing Flushing, drug rash and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy. 6.3 Hypotension Postural hypotension, as manifest by vertigo, weakness, palpitation, and other symptoms, may develop occasionally, particularly in erect, immobile patients. Marked sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates (manifested by nausea, vomiting, weakness, diaphoresis, pallor, and collapse) may occur at therapeutic doses. 6.4 Syncope Syncope due to nitrate vasodilatation has been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are headache, flushing, hypotension, and syncope (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Rouses PointPharmaceuticals at 1-877-567-0862 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch/report.htm . 6.1 Headache Headache, which may be severe and persistent, may occur immediately after nitroglycerin use. 6.2 Flushing Flushing, drug rash and exfoliative dermatitis have been reported in patients receiving nitrate therapy. 6.3 Hypotension Postural hypotension, as manifest by vertigo, weakness, palpitation, and other symptoms, may develop occasionally, particularly in erect, immobile patients. Marked sensitivity to the hypotensive effects of nitrates (manifested by nausea, vomiting, weakness, diaphoresis, pallor, and collapse) may occur at therapeutic doses. 6.4 Syncope Syncope due to nitrate vasodilatation has been reported."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS PDE5 inhibitors: Concomitant use contraindicated (4.1, 7.1) Antihypertensives: Possible additive hypotensive effects (7.2) Aspirin: increased nitroglycerin levels (7.3) Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA): decreased thrombolytic effect (7.4) Heparin: anticoagulant effect of heparin may be reduced. Monitor APTT. (7.5) Ergotamine: increased bioavailability of ergotamine. Avoid concomitant use. (7.6) 7.1 PDE5 Inhibitors Administration of Nitroglycerin Lingual Aerosol is contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5). PDE5 inhibitors such as sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates. The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied, and use within a few days of one another cannot be recommended. Appropriate supportive care for the severe hypotension has not been studied, but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose, with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion. The use of any form of nitroglycerin during the early days of acute myocardial infarction requires particular attention to hemodynamic monitoring and clinical status. 7.2 Antihypertensives Patients receiving antihypertensive drugs, beta-adrenergic blockers, and nitrates should be observed for possible additive hypotensive effects. Marked orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used concomitantly. Labetolol blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effects. If labetolol is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris, additional hypotensive effects may occur. 7.3 Aspirin Coadministration of aspirin and nitroglycerin has been reported to result in increased nitroglycerin maximum concentrations by as much as 67% and AUC by 73% when administered as a single dose. The vasodilatory and hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin may be enhanced by concomitant administration of aspirin. 7.4 Tissue-type Plasminogen Activator (t-PA) Intravenous administration of nitroglycerin decreases the thrombolytic effect of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA). Plasma levels of t-PA are reduced when coadministered with nitroglycerin. Therefore, caution should be observed in patients receiving nitroglycerin during t-PA therapy. 7.5 Heparin Intravenous nitroglycerin reduces the anticoagulant effect of heparin. Activated partial thromboplastin times (APTT) should be monitored in patients receiving heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin. It is not known if this effect occurs following single nitroglycerin doses. 7.6 Ergotamine Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris. Therefore, patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS PDE5 inhibitors: Concomitant use contraindicated (4.1, 7.1) Antihypertensives: Possible additive hypotensive effects (7.2) Aspirin: increased nitroglycerin levels (7.3) Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA): decreased thrombolytic effect (7.4) Heparin: anticoagulant effect of heparin may be reduced. Monitor APTT. (7.5) Ergotamine: increased bioavailability of ergotamine. Avoid concomitant use. (7.6) 7.1 PDE5 Inhibitors Administration of NitroMist is contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5). PDE5 inhibitors such as sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates. The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied, and use within a few days of one another cannot be recommended. Appropriate supportive care for the severe hypotension has not been studied, but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose, with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion. The use of any form of nitroglycerin during the early days of acute myocardial infarction requires particular attention to hemodynamic monitoring and clinical status. 7.2 Antihypertensives Patients receiving antihypertensive drugs, beta-adrenergic blockers, and nitrates should be observed for possible additive hypotensive effects. Marked orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used concomitantly. Labetolol blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effects. If labetolol is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris, additional hypotensive effects may occur. 7.3 Aspirin Coadministration of aspirin and nitroglycerin has been reported to result in increased nitroglycerin maximum concentrations by as much as 67% and AUC by 73% when administered as a single dose. The vasodilatory and hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin may be enhanced by concomitant administration of aspirin. 7.4 Tissue-type Plasminogen Activator (t-PA) Intravenous administration of nitroglycerin decreases the thrombolytic effect of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA). Plasma levels of t-PA are reduced when coadministered with nitroglycerin. Therefore, caution should be observed in patients receiving nitroglycerin during t-PA therapy. 7.5 Heparin Intravenous nitroglycerin reduces the anticoagulant effect of heparin. Activated partial thromboplastin times (APTT) should be monitored in patients receiving heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin. It is not known if this effect occurs following single nitroglycerin doses. 7.6 Ergotamine Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris. Therefore, patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible."$$
