
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS A single case (approximately one percent of patients studied) of acneiform eruption occurred with use of combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide in clinical studies. Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups, even during prolonged use. Rarely, irritation may occur. The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids (reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence): burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, perioral secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: A single case (approximately one percent of patients studied) of acneiform eruption occured with the use of combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide in clinical studies. Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups, even during prolonged use. Rarely, irritation may occur. The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in the approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, perioral secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: A single case (approximately one percent of patients studied) of acneiform eruption occurred with the use of combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide in clinical studies. Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups, even during prolonged use. Rarely, irritation may occur. The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids. These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence: burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, perioral secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS A single case (approximately one percent of patients studied) of acneiform eruption occurred with use of combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide in clinical studies. Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups, even during prolonged use. Rarely, irritation may occur. The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids (reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence): burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, perioral secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS A single case (approximately one percent of patients studied) of acneiform eruption occurred with use of combined nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide in clinical studies. Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups, even during prolonged use. Rarely, irritation may occur. The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids (reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence): burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, perioral secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae and miliaria. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact G&W Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-922-1038 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is virtually non-toxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants, even on prolonged administration. If irritation on topical application should occur, discontinue medication."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is virtually nontoxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants, even on prolonged administration. If irritation on topical application should occur, discontinue medication."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported (see ). PRECAUTIONS, General Gastrointestinal Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS, General). Gastrointestinal Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported. (See PRECAUTIONS, General. ) Gastrointestinal: Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic: Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other: Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported. (See PRECAUTIONS: General ). Gastrointestinal: Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic: Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other: Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and non-specific myalgia have also been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported. (See PRECAUTIONS: General.) Gastrointestinal Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported. (See PRECAUTIONS: General). Gastrointestinal: Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic: Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other: Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported. (See PRECAUTIONS: General ). Gastrointestinal: Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic: Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other: Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported (See PRECAUTIONS: General ). Gastrointestinal: Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic: Rash, including urticaria has been reported rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other: Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and nonspecific myalgia have also been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy. Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported. (See PRECAUTIONS: General ). Gastrointestinal: Diarrhea (including one case of bloody diarrhea), nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset/disturbances. Dermatologic: Rash, including urticaria has been reported very rarely. Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely. Other: Tachycardia, bronchospasm, facial swelling, and non-specific myalgia have also been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin Ointment USP is virtually non-toxic and nonsensitizing and is well tolerated by all age groups including debilitated infants, even on prolonged administration. If irritation on topical application should occur, discontinue medication."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin cream is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS: General .)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin cream is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS : General.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using Nystatin Cream USP is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application (see PRECAUTIONS-General)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical powder is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS, General .)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical powder is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS, General.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical preparations is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS: General .)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical preparations is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS: General. )"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical preparations is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS: General.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical preparations is less than 0.1%. The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application. (See PRECAUTIONS: General)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Gastrointestinal symptoms including diarrhea, gastrointestinal distress, nausea, vomiting and burning of the mouth have been reported. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, and anaphylactoid reaction have also been reported."$$
