"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension (5.2). Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation (5.3). Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment (5.4). 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible [see Use in specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Morbidity in Infants Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.3 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.4 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension (5.2). Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation (5.3). Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment (5.4). 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible [see Use in specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Morbidity in Infants Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.3 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.4 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). -Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension (5.2). -Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation (5.3). -Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment (5.4). -Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is found (5.5). 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible [see Use in specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Morbidity in Infants Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.3 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.4 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected. 5.5 Sprue-like Enteropathy Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is identified."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension (5.2). Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation (5.3). Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment (5.4). Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is found (5.5). 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible [see Use in specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Morbidity in Infants Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.3 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.4 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected. 5.5 Sprue-like Enteropathy Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is identified."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension (5.2). Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation (5.3). Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment (5.4). Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is found (5.5). 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible [see Use in specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Morbidity in Infants Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.3 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.4 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected. 5.5 Sprue-like Enteropathy Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is identified. 5.6 Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances Benicar contains olmesartan, a drug that inhibits the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Drugs that inhibit the RAS can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure . (5.1) Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension . (5.2) Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation . (5.3) Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment . (5.4) Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is found . (5.5) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible see . Pregnancy Category D [ Use in specific Populations ( )] 8.1 5.2 Morbidity in Infants Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys . [see Use in Specific Populations ] (8.4) 5.3 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline . A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. [see Dosage and Administration ] (2.1) 5.4 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar . [see Dosage and Administration , Drug Interactions , Use in Specific Populations and Clinical Pharmacology ] (2.1) (7) (8.7) (12.3) In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected. 5.5 Sprue-like Enteropathy Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is identified."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). Hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation may be anticipated. Start treatment under close supervision (5.2). Increased angina or myocardial infarction with calcium channel blockers may occur upon dosage initiation or increase (5.4). Impaired renal function: changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals (5.6). Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Azor in cases where no other etiology is found (5.8). 5.1 Fetal toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Azor as soon as possible [see Use in specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients Olmesartan medoxomil. Symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with olmesartan medoxomil. Patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics) may be particularly vulnerable. Initiate treatment with Azor under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.3 Vasodilation Amlodipine. Since the vasodilation attributable to amlodipine in Azor is gradual in onset, acute hypotension has rarely been reported after oral administration. Nonetheless, exercise caution, as with any other peripheral vasodilator, when administering Azor, particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis. 5.4 Patients with Severe Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease Patients, particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease, may develop increased frequency, duration, or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction on starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase. The mechanism of this effect has not been elucidated. 5.5 Patients with Congestive Heart Failure Amlodipine. Amlodipine (5-10 mg per day) has been studied in a placebo-controlled trial of 1153 patients with NYHA Class III or IV heart failure on stable doses of ACE inhibitor, digoxin, and diuretics. Follow-up was at least 6 months, with a mean of about 14 months. There was no overall adverse effect on survival or cardiac morbidity (as defined by life-threatening arrhythmia, acute myocardial infarction, or hospitalization for worsened heart failure). Amlodipine has been compared to placebo in four 8-12 week studies of patients with NYHA class II/III heart failure, involving a total of 697 patients. In these studies, there was no evidence of worsening of heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance, NYHA classification, symptoms, or LVEF. 5.6 Patients with Impaired Renal Function Azor. There are no studies of Azor in patients with renal impairment. Olmesartan medoxomil. Changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with olmesartan medoxomil as a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and (rarely) with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar effects may occur in patients treated with Azor because of the olmesartan medoxomil component [See Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of olmesartan medoxomil in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar effects would be expected with olmesartan medoxomil and Azor. 5.7 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Amlodipine. Since amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half-life (t1/2) is 56 hours in patients with severely impaired hepatic function, exercise caution when administering Azor to patients with severe hepatic impairment. Patients with hepatic impairment have decreased clearance of amlodipine. Starting amlodipine or adding amlodipine at 2.5 mg in hepatically impaired patients is recommended. The lowest dose of Azor is 5/20 mg; therefore, initial therapy with Azor is not recommended in hepatically impaired patients [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 5.8 Sprue-like Enteropathy Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of Azor in cases where no other etiology is identified. 5.9 Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances Azor contains olmesartan, a drug that inhibits the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Drugs that inhibit the RAS can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically. 5.10 Laboratory Tests Azor. There was a greater decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit in the combination product compared to either component. Other laboratory changes can usually be attributed to either monotherapy component. Amlodipine. In post-marketing experience, hepatic enzyme elevations have been reported (6.2). Olmesartan medoxomil. In post-marketing experience, increased blood creatinine levels have been reported."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation (5.2). Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment (5.3). 5.1 Fetal/Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women. Several dozen cases have been reported in the world literature of patients who were taking angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible. The use of drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with fetal and neonatal injury, including hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, anuria, reversible or irreversible renal failure and death. Oligohydramnios has also been reported, presumably resulting from decreased fetal function; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal limb contractures, craniofacial deformation and hypoplastic lung development. Prematurity, intrauterine growth retardation and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported, although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to exposure to the drug. These adverse effects do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine drug exposure that has been limited to the first trimester. Mothers whose embryos and fetuses are exposed to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist only during the first trimester should be so informed. Nonetheless, when patients become pregnant, physicians should have the patient discontinue the use of Benicar as soon as possible. Rarely (probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies), no alternative to a drug acting on the renin-angiotensin system will be found. In these rare cases, the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue Benicar unless it is considered life-saving for the mother. Contraction stress testing (CST), a nonstress test (NST) or biophysical profiling (BPP) may be appropriate, depending upon the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Infants with histories of in utero exposure to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist should be closely observed for hypotension, oliguria and hyperkalemia. If oliguria occurs, attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion. Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and/or substituting for disordered renal function. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal or neonatal exposure (5.1) Hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation may occur. Correct volume-depletion prior to administration. (5.2) Increased angina or myocardial infarction with calcium channel blockers may occur upon dosage initiation or increase (5.3). Avoid in patients with severely impaired renal function (creatinine clearance <=30 mL/min) (2, 5.4). Withhold or discontinue Tribenzor if progressive renal impairment becomes evident (5.4). Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with mildly to moderately impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease. Avoid in patients with severely impaired hepatic function (5.5). Observe for signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance (5.6). Thiazide diuretics may cause an exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus (5.8). Thiazides have been associated with acute angle-closure glaucoma (5.9) Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Tribenzor in cases where no other etiology is found (5.10). 5.1 Fetal toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Tribenzor as soon as possible [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients Olmesartan medoxomil. Symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with olmesartan medoxomil. Patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics) may be particularly vulnerable. Initiate treatment with Tribenzor under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.3 Increased Angina and/or Myocardial Infarction Amlodipine. Patients, particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease, may develop increased frequency, duration, or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction upon starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase. The mechanism of this effect has not been elucidated. 5.4 Impaired Renal Function Tribenzor. Tribenzor has not been studied in patients with impaired renal function. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <=30 ml/min) [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. An adverse event of impaired renal function was reported in 2.1% of subjects receiving Tribenzor compared to 0.2% to 1.3% of subjects receiving dual combination therapy. If progressive renal impairment becomes evident consider withholding or discontinuing either diuretic or angiotensin receptor blocker therapies. Olmesartan medoxomil. Changes in renal function occur in some individuals treated with olmesartan medoxomil as a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and (rarely) with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar effects may occur in patients treated with Tribenzor due to the olmesartan medoxomil component [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of olmesartan medoxomil in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar effects would be expected with Tribenzor because of the olmesartan medoxomil component. Hydrochlorothiazide. Thiazides may precipitate azotemia in patients with renal disease. Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function. 5.5 Hepatic Impairment Amlodipine. Amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half-life (t1/2) is 56 hours in patients with severely impaired hepatic function [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Hydrochlorothiazide. Minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. 5.6 Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances Hydrochlorothiazide. Perform periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance. Observe patients receiving thiazide therapy for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance: hyponatremia, hypochloremic alkalosis, and hypokalemia. Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parental fluids. Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance, irrespective of cause, include dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, confusion, seizures, muscle pains or cramps, muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting. Hypokalemia may develop, especially during brisk diuresis, when severe cirrhosis is present, or after prolonged therapy. Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia. Hypokalemia may cause cardiac arrhythmia and may also sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis (e.g., increased ventricular irritability). Tribenzor also contains olmesartan, a drug that inhibits the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Drugs that inhibit the RAS can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically. Metabolic acidosis may occur. Although a chloride deficit in a particular patient is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment, except under extraordinary circumstances (as in liver disease or renal disease), chloride replacement may be required in the treatment of metabolic alkalosis. Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather; appropriate therapy is water restriction, rather than administration of salt, except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life-threatening. In actual salt depletion, appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy. In diabetic patients dosage adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents may be required. Hyperglycemia may occur with thiazide diuretics. Thus, latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy. The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the post-sympathectomy patient. Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium; this may result in hypomagnesemia. Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion. Thiazides may cause intermittent and slight elevation of serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcemia may be evidence of hyperparathyroidism. Tribenzor should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function. 5.7 Hypersensitivity Reaction Hydrochlorothiazide. Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.8 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Hydrochlorothiazide. Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.9 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.10 Sprue-like Enteropathy Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of Tribenzor in cases where no other etiology is identified. 5.11 Vasodilation Amlodipine. Although vasodilation attributable to amlodipine is generally gradual in onset, acute hypotension has rarely been reported after oral administration. Patients with severe aortic stenosis may be at particular risk. 5.12 Heart Failure Tribenzor. Tribenzor has not been studied in patients with heart failure. Amlodipine. Amlodipine (5-10 mg per day) has been studied in a placebo-controlled trial of 1153 patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure on stable doses of ACE inhibitor, digoxin, and diuretics. Follow-up was at least 6 months, with a mean of about 14 months. There was no overall adverse effect on survival or cardiac morbidity (as defined by life threatening arrhythmia, acute myocardial infarction, or hospitalization for worsened heart failure). Amlodipine has been compared to placebo in four 8-12 week studies of patients with NYHA Class II/III heart failure, involving a total of 697 patients. In these studies, there was no evidence of worsening of heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance, NYHA classification, symptoms, or left ventricular ejection fraction. 5.13 Laboratory Tests Olmesartan medoxomil. In post-marketing experience, increased blood creatinine levels have been reported. Amlodipine. In post-marketing experience, hepatic enzyme elevations have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Hydrochlorothiazide. Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels may be associated with thiazide diuretic therapy."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here Hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation may be anticipated. Start treatment under close supervision (5.2). Increased angina or myocardial infarction with calcium channel blockers may occur upon dosage initiation or increase (5.4). Impaired renal function: changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals (5.6). 5.1 Fetal/Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality Olmesartan medoxomil. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women. There have been several dozen cases reported in the world literature of patients who were taking angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Azor as soon as possible. During the second and third trimesters of pregnancy, these drugs have been associated with fetal injury that includes hypotension, neonatal skull hypoplasia, anuria, reversible or irreversible renal failure, and death. Oligohydramnios has also been reported, presumably resulting from decreased fetal renal function; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal limb contractures, craniofacial deformation, and hypoplastic lung development. Prematurity, intrauterine growth retardation, and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported, although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to exposure to the drug. These adverse effects do not appear to have resulted from intrauterine drug exposure that has been limited to the first trimester. Mothers whose embryos and fetuses are exposed to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist only during the first trimester should be so informed. Nonetheless, when patients become pregnant, physicians should have the patient discontinue the use of Azor as soon as possible. Rarely (probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies), no alternative to a drug acting on the renin-angiotensin system will be found. In these rare cases, the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue Azor unless it is considered life-saving for the mother. Contraction stress testing (CST), a non-stress test (NST), or biophysical profiling (BPP) may be appropriate, depending upon the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Infants with histories of in utero exposure to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist should be closely observed for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia. If oliguria occurs, attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion. Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and/or substituting for disordered renal function. No teratogenic effects were observed when olmesartan medoxomil was administered to pregnant rats at oral doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day (240 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis) or pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 1 mg/kg/day (half the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis; higher doses could not be evaluated for effects on fetal development as they were lethal to the does). In rats, significant decreases in pup birth weight and weight gain were observed at doses >=1.6 mg/kg/day, and delays in developmental milestones (delayed separation of ear auricular, eruption of lower incisors, appearance of abdominal hair, descent of testes, and separation of eyelids) and dose-dependent increases in the incidence of dilation of the renal pelvis were observed at doses >=8 mg/kg/day. The no observed effect dose for developmental toxicity in rats is 0.3 mg/kg/day, about one-tenth the MRHD of 40 mg/day. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients Olmesartan medoxomil. Symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with olmesartan medoxomil. Patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics) may be particularly vulnerable. Initiate treatment with Azor under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. 5.3 Vasodilation Amlodipine. Since the vasodilation attributable to amlodipine in Azor is gradual in onset, acute hypotension has rarely been reported after oral administration. Nonetheless, exercise caution, as with any other peripheral vasodilator, when administering Azor, particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis. 5.4 Patients with Severe Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease Patients, particularly those with severe obstructive coronary artery disease, may develop increased frequency, duration, or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction on starting calcium channel blocker therapy or at the time of dosage increase. The mechanism of this effect has not been elucidated. 5.5 Patients with Congestive Heart Failure Amlodipine. In general, calcium channel blockers should be used with caution in patients with heart failure. Amlodipine (5-10 mg per day) has been studied in a placebo-controlled trial of 1153 patients with NYHA Class III or IV heart failure on stable doses of ACE inhibitor, digoxin, and diuretics. Follow-up was at least 6 months, with a mean of about 14 months. There was no overall adverse effect on survival or cardiac morbidity (as defined by life-threatening arrhythmia, acute myocardial infarction, or hospitalization for worsened heart failure). Amlodipine has been compared to placebo in four 8-12 week studies of patients with NYHA class II/III heart failure, involving a total of 697 patients. In these studies, there was no evidence of worsening of heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance, NYHA classification, symptoms, or LVEF. 5.6 Patients with Impaired Renal Function Azor. There are no studies of Azor in patients with renal impairment. Olmesartan medoxomil. Changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with olmesartan medoxomil as a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and (rarely) with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar effects may occur in patients treated with Azor because of the olmesartan medoxomil component [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of olmesartan medoxomil in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar effects would be expected with olmesartan medoxomil and Azor. 5.7 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Amlodipine. Since amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half-life (t1/2) is 56 hours in patients with severely impaired hepatic function, exercise caution when administering Azor to patients with severe hepatic impairment. Patients with hepatic impairment have decreased clearance of amlodipine. Starting amlodipine or adding amlodipine at 2.5 mg in hepatically impaired patients is recommended. The lowest dose of Azor is 5/20 mg; therefore, initial therapy with Azor is not recommended in hepatically impaired patients [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 5.8 Laboratory Tests Azor. There was a greater decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit in the combination product compared to either component. Other laboratory changes can usually be attributed to either monotherapy component. Amlodipine. In post-marketing experience, hepatic enzyme elevations have been reported (6.2). Olmesartan medoxomil. In post-marketing experience, increased blood creatinine levels and hyperkalemia have been reported."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume-depletion prior to administration. (5.2) Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients (5.3) Observe for signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.4) Acute angle-closure glaucoma (5.5) Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Benicar HCT in cases where no other etiology is found (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue BENICAR HCT as soon as possible [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice and thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with BENICAR HCT. If hypotension does occur, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, given an intravenous infusion of normal saline. When electrolyte and fluid imbalances have been corrected, BENICAR HCT usually can be continued without difficulty. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on BENICAR HCT. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on BENICAR HCT [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances BENICAR HCT contains hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia and hyponatremia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. BENICAR HCT also contains olmesartan, a drug that inhibits the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Drugs that inhibit the RAS can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Sprue-Like Enteropathy Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of BENICAR HCT in cases where no other etiology is identified."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Enter section text here Most common adverse reaction (incidence >=3%) is edema (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. AzorThe data described below reflect exposure to Azor in more than 1600 patients including more than 1000 exposed for at least 6 months and more than 700 exposed for 1 year. Azor was studied in one placebo-controlled factorial trial (see Section 14.1). The population had a mean age of 54 years and included approximately 55% males. Seventy-one percent were Caucasian and 25% were Black. Patients received doses ranging from 5/20 mg to 10/40 mg orally once daily. The overall incidence of adverse reactions on therapy with Azor was similar to that seen with corresponding doses of the individual components of Azor, and to placebo. The reported adverse reactions were generally mild and seldom led to discontinuation of treatment (2.6% for Azor and 6.8% for placebo). Edema Edema is a known, dose-dependent adverse effect of amlodipine but not of olmesartan medoxomil. The placebo-subtracted incidence of edema during the 8-week, randomized, double-blind treatment period was highest with amlodipine 10 mg monotherapy. The incidence was significantly reduced when 20 mg or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil was added to the 10 mg amlodipine dose. Placebo-Subtracted Incidence of Edema during the Double-Blind Treatment Period Olmesartan Medoxomil Placebo 20 mg 40 mg Amlodipine Placebo -%* -2.4% 6.2% 5mg 0.7% 5.7% 6.2% 10 mg 24.5% 13.3% 11.2% *12.3% = actual placebo incidence Across all treatment groups, the frequency of edema was generally higher in women than men, as has been observed in previous studies of amlodipine. Adverse reactions seen at lower rates during the double-blind period also occurred in the patients treated with Azor at about the same or greater incidence as in patients receiving placebo. These included hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, rash, pruritus, palpitation, urinary frequency, and nocturia. The adverse event profile obtained from 44 weeks of open-label combination therapy with amlodipine plus olmesartan medoxomil was similar to that observed during the 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled period. Initial Therapy Analyzing the data described above specifically for initial therapy, it was observed that higher doses of Azor caused slightly more hypotension and orthostatic symptoms, but not at the recommended starting dose of Azor 5/20 mg. No increase in the incidence of syncope or near syncope was observed. The incidences of discontinuation because of any treatment emergent adverse events in the double blind phase are summarized in the table below. Discontinuation for any Treatment Emergent Adverse Event1 Olmesartan Medoxomil Placebo 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg Amlodipine Placebo 4.9% 4.3% 5.6% 3.1% 5mg 3.7% 0.0% 1.2% 3.7% 10 mg 5.5% 6.8% 2.5% 5.6% * 1Hypertension is counted as treatment failure and not as treatment emergent adverse event. N=160-163 subjects per treatment group. Amlodipine Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11,000 patients in U.S. and foreign clinical trials. Most adverse reactions reported during therapy with amlodipine were of mild or moderate severity. In controlled clinical trials directly comparing amlodipine (N=1730) in doses up to 10 mg to placebo (N=1250), discontinuation of amlodipine due to adverse reactions was required in only about 1.5% of amlodipine-treated patients and about 1% of placebo-treated patients. The most common side effects were headache and edema. The incidence (%) of dose-related side effects was as follows: Adverse Event Placebo N=520 2.5 mg N=275 5.0 mg N=296 10.0 mg N=268 Edema 0.6 1.8 3.0 10.8 Dizziness 1.5 1.1 3.4 3.4 Flushing 0.0 0.7 1.4 2.6 Palpitation 0.6 0.7 1.4 4.5 For several adverse experiences that appear to be drug- and dose-related, there was a greater incidence in women than men associated with amlodipine treatment as shown in the following table; Adverse Event Placebo Amlodipine Male=% (N=914) Female=% (N=336) Male=% (N=1218) Female=% (N=512) Edema 1.4 5.1 5.6 14.6 Flushing 0.3 0.9 1.5 4.5 Palpitation 0.9 0.9 1.4 3.3 Somnolence 0.8 0.3 1.3 1.6 Olmesartan medoxomil Olmesartan medoxomil has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse events similar to that seen with placebo. Events were generally mild, transient, and without relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil. The overall frequency of adverse events was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age, and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil- and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse event that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil and at a higher incidence in olmesartan medoxomil treated patients vs. placebo was dizziness (3% vs 1%). 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of the individual components of Azor. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Amlodipine. The following post-marketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain: gynecomastia. In post-marketing experience, jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations (mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis), in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization, have been reported in association with use of amlodipine. Olmesartan medoxomil. The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Body as a Whole: asthenia, angioedema Gastrointestinal: vomiting Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: acute renal failure Skin and Appendages: alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reaction (incidence >=3%) is edema (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Azor The data described below reflect exposure to Azor in more than 1600 patients including more than 1000 exposed for at least 6 months and more than 700 exposed for 1 year. Azor was studied in one placebo-controlled factorial trial (see Section 14.1). The population had a mean age of 54 years and included approximately 55% males. Seventy-one percent were Caucasian and 25% were Black. Patients received doses ranging from 5/20 mg to 10/40 mg orally once daily. The overall incidence of adverse reactions on therapy with Azor was similar to that seen with corresponding doses of the individual components of Azor, and to placebo. The reported adverse reactions were generally mild and seldom led to discontinuation of treatment (2.6% for Azor and 6.8% for placebo). Edema Edema is a known, dose-dependent adverse effect of amlodipine but not of olmesartan medoxomil.The placebo-subtracted incidence of edema during the 8-week, randomized, double-blind treatment period was highest with amlodipine 10 mg monotherapy. The incidence was significantly reduced when 20 mg or 40 mg of olmesartan medoxomil was added to the 10 mg amlodipine dose. Placebo-Subtracted Incidence of Edema during the Double-Blind Treatment Period *12.3%=actual placebo incidence Olmesartan Medoximil Placebo 20 mg 40 mg Placebo * -2.4% 6.2% Almodopine 5 mg 0.7% 5.7% 6.2% 10 mg 24.5% 13.3% 11.2% Across all treatment groups, the frequency of edema was generally higher in women than men, as has been observed in previous studies of amlodipine. Adverse reactions seen at lower rates during the double-blind period also occurred in the patients treated with Azor at about the same or greater incidence as in patients receiving placebo. These included hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, rash, pruritus, palpitation, urinary frequency, and nocturia. The adverse event profile obtained from 44 weeks of open-label combination therapy with amlodipine plus olmesartan medoxomil was similar to that observed during the 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled period. Initial Therapy Analyzing the data described above specifically for initial therapy, it was observed that higher doses of Azor caused slightly more hypotension and orthostatic symptoms, but not at the recommended starting dose of Azor 5/20 mg. No increase in the incidence of syncope or near syncope was observed. The incidences of discontinuation because of any treatment emergent adverse events in the double blind phase are summarized in the table below. Discontinuation for any Treatment Emergent Adverse Event1 Olmesartan Medoximil Placebo 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg Placebo 4.9% 4.3% 5.6% 3.1% Almodopine 5 mg 3.7% 0.0% 1.2% 3.7% 10 mg 5.5% 6.8% 2.5% 5.6% *1Hypertension is counted as treatment failure and not as treatment emergent adverse event. N=160-163 subjects per treatment group Amlodipine Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11,000 patients in U.S. and foreign clinical trials. Most adverse reactions reported during therapy with amlodipine were of mild or moderate severity. In controlled clinical trials directly comparing amlodipine (N=1730) in doses up to 10 mg to placebo (N=1250), discontinuation of amlodipine due to adverse reactions was required in only about 1.5% of amlodipine-treated patients and about 1% of placebo-treated patients. The most common side effects were headache and edema. The incidence (%) of dose-related side effects was as follows: Adverse Event Placebo N=520 2.5 mg N=275 5.0 mg N=296 10.0 mg N=268 Edema 0.6 1.8 3.0 10.8 Dizziness 1.5 1.1 3.4 3.4 Flushing 0.0 0.7 1.4 2.6 Palpitation 0.6 0.7 1.4 4.5 For several adverse experiences that appear to be drug- and dose-related, there was a greater incidence in women than men associated with amlodipine treatment as shown in the following table; Adverse Event Placebo Amlodipine Male=% (N=914) Female=% (N=336) Male=% (N=1218) Female=% (N=512) Edema 1.4 5.1 5.6 14.6 Flushing 0.3 0.9 1.5 4.5 Palpitation 0.9 0.9 1.4 3.3 Somnolence 0.8 0.3 1.3 1.6 Olmesartan medoxomil. Olmesartan medoxomil has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 treated for at least 1 year. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse events similar to that seen with placebo. Events were generally mild, transient, and without relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil. The overall frequency of adverse events was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age, and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil- and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse event that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil and at a higher incidence in olmesartan medoxomil treated patients vs. placebo was dizziness (3% vs 1%). 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of the individual components of Azor. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Amlodipine. The following post-marketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain: gynecomastia. In post-marketing experience, jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations (mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis), in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization, have been reported in association with use of amlodipine. Olmesartan medoxomil. The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Body as a Whole: asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions, peripheral edema Gastrointestinal: vomiting, diarrhea, sprue-like enteropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: acute renal failure Skin and Appendages: alopecia, pruritus, urticaria Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high-dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular (CV) risk in diabetic patients, but the overall data are not conclusive. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ROADMAP trial (Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial, n=4447) examined the use of olmesartan, 40 mg daily, vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, normoalbuminuria, and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease. The trial met its primary endpoint, delayed onset of microalbuminuria, but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There was a finding of increased CV mortality (adjudicated sudden cardiac death, fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, revascularization death) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group (15 olmesartan vs. 3 placebo, HR 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4, 17), but the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.35, 1.18). The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300,000 patient-years. In the sub-group of diabetic patients receiving high-dose olmesartan (40 mg/d) for > 6 months, there appeared to be an increased risk of death (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1, 3.8) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. In contrast, high-dose olmesartan use in non-diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24, 0.86) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months. Overall, these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high-dose olmesartan in diabetic patients. There are, however, concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk, notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non-diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2%) are dizziness, peripheral edema, headache, fatigue, nasopharyngitis, muscle spasms, nausea, upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhea, urinary tract infection, and joint swelling (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Tribenzor In the controlled trial of Tribenzor, patients were randomized to Tribenzor (olmesartan medoxomil/amlodipine/hydrochlorothiazide 40/10/25 mg), olmesartan medoxomil/amlodipine 40/10 mg, olmesartan medoxomil/hydrochlorothiazide 40/25 mg, or amlodipine/hydrochlorothiazide 10/25 mg. Subjects who received triple combination therapy were treated between two and four weeks with one of the three dual combination therapies. Safety data from this study were obtained in 574 patients with hypertension who received Tribenzor for 8 weeks. The frequency of adverse reactions was similar between men and women, patients <65 years of age and patients >=65 years of age, patients with and without diabetes, and Black and non-Black patients. Discontinuations because of adverse events occurred in 4% of patients treated with Tribenzor 40/10/25 mg compared to 1% of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil/amlodipine 40/10 mg, 2% of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil/hydrochlorothiazide 40/25 mg, and 2% of patients treated with amlodipine/hydrochlorothiazide 10/25 mg. The most common reason for discontinuation with Tribenzor was dizziness (1%). Dizziness was one of the most frequently reported adverse reactions with incidence of 1.4% to 3.6% in subjects continuing on dual combination therapy compared to 5.8% to 8.9% in subjects who switched to Tribenzor. The other most frequent adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2% of subjects are presented in the table below: Table 1 Adverse Reaction OM40/ AML10/ HCTZ25 mg (N = 574) n (%) OM40/ AML10 mg (N = 596) n (%) OM40/ HCTZ25mg (N = 580) n (%) AML10/ HCTZ25 mg (N = 552) n (%) Edema peripheral 44 (7.7) 42 (7.0) 6 (1.0) 46 (8.3) Headache 37 (6.4) 42 (7.0) 38 (6.6) 33 (6.0) Fatigue 24 (4.2) 34 (5.7) 31 (5.3) 36 (6.5) Nasopharyngitis 20 (3.5) 11 (1.8) 20 (3.4) 16 (2.9) Muscle spasms 18 (3.1) 12 (2.0) 14 (2.4) 13 (2.4) Nausea 17 (3.0) 12 (2.0) 22 (3.8) 12 (2.2) Upper respiratory tract infection 16 (2.8) 26 (4.4) 18 (3.1) 14 (2.5) Diarrhea 15 (2.6) 14 (2.3) 12 (2.1) 9 (1.6) Urinary tract infection 14 (2.4) 8 (1.3) 6 (1.0) 7 (1.3) Joint swelling 12 (2.1) 17 (2.9) 2 (0.3) 16 (2.9) Syncope was reported by 1% of Tribenzor subjects compared to 0.5% or less for the other treatment groups. Olmesartan medoxomil Olmesartan medoxomil has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 treated for at least 1 year. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to that seen with placebo. Adverse reactions were generally mild, transient, and without relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil. Amlodipine Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11,000 patients in U.S. and foreign clinical trials. The following adverse reactions occurred in <1% but >0.1% of patients in controlled clinical trials under conditions of open trials or marketing experience where a causal relationship is uncertain; they are listed to alert physicians to a possible relationship: Cardiovascular: arrhythmia (including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation), bradycardia, chest pain, hypotension, peripheral ischemia, syncope, tachycardia, postural dizziness, postural hypotension, vasculitis Central and Peripheral Nervous System: hypoesthesia, neuropathy peripheral, paresthesia, tremor, vertigo Gastrointestinal: anorexia, constipation, dyspepsia*, dysphagia, diarrhea, flatulence, pancreatitis, vomiting, gingival hyperplasia General: allergic reaction, asthenia*, back pain, hot flushes, malaise, pain, rigors, weight gain, weight decrease Musculoskeletal System: arthralgia, arthrosis, muscle cramps*, myalgia Psychiatric: sexual dysfunction (male* and female), insomnia, nervousness, depression, abnormal dreams, anxiety, depersonalization Respiratory: dyspnea*, epistaxis Skin and Appendages: angioedema, erythema multiforme, pruritus*, rash*, rash erythematous, rash maculopapular Special Senses: abnormal vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, eye pain, tinnitus Urinary System: micturition frequency, micturition disorder, nocturia Autonomic Nervous System: dry mouth, sweating increased Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, thirst Hemopoietic: leukopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia * = events that occurred in less than 1% in placebo-controlled trials, but the incidence of these side effects was between 1% and 2% in all multiple dose studies. The following adverse reactions occurred in <0.1% of patients: cardiac failure, pulse irregularity, extrasystoles, skin discoloration, urticaria, skin dryness, alopecia, dermatitis, muscle weakness, twitching, ataxia, hypertonia, migraine, cold and clammy skin, apathy, agitation, amnesia, gastritis, increased appetite, loose stools, coughing, rhinitis, dysuria, polyuria, parosmia, taste perversion, abnormal visual accommodation, and xerophthalmia. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse reactions that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, anaphylactic reactions Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of the individual components of Tribenzor. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Olmesartan medoxomil. The following adverse reactions have been reported in post marketing experience: Body as a Whole: asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions, peripheral edema Gastrointestinal: vomiting, diarrhea, sprue-like enteropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: acute renal failure Skin and Appendages: alopecia, pruritus, urticaria Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high-dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular (CV) risk in diabetic patients, but the overall data are not conclusive. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ROADMAP trial (Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial, n=4447) examined the use of olmesartan, 40 mg daily, vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, normoalbuminuria, and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease. The trial met its primary endpoint, delayed onset of microalbuminuria, but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There was a finding of increased CV mortality (adjudicated sudden cardiac death, fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, revascularization death) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group (15 olmesartan vs. 3 placebo, HR 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4, 17), but the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.35, 1.18). The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300,000 patient-years. In the sub-group of diabetic patients receiving high-dose olmesartan (40 mg/d) for > 6 months, there appeared to be an increased risk of death (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1, 3.8) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. In contrast, high-dose olmesartan use in non-diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24, 0.86) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months. Overall, these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high-dose olmesartan in diabetic patients. There are, however, concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk, notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non-diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics. Amlodipine. The following post-marketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain: gynecomastia. In post-marketing experience, jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations (mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis), in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization, have been reported in association with use of amlodipine."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions with BENICAR HCT are described elsewhere: Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Impaired Renal Function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Electrolyte and Metabolic Imbalances [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Systemic Lupus Erythematosus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Sprue-Like Enteropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2%) are nausea, hyperuricemia, dizziness, and upper respiratory infection (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-332-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide The concomitant use of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide was evaluated for safety in 1243 hypertensive patients. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse events similar to that of placebo. Adverse reactions were generally mild, transient and not dependent on the dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. The rate of withdrawals for adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.0% (25/1243) on olmesartan medoxomil plus hydrochlorothiazide and 2.0% (7/342) on placebo. In a placebo-controlled, factorial clinical trial of olmesartan medoxomil (2.5 mg to 40 mg) and hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 mg to 25 mg), the following adverse reactions reported in Table 1 occurred in >2% of patients, and more often on the olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide combination than on placebo. Table 1: Adverse Reactions in a Factorial Trial of Patients with Hypertension Olmesartan/HCTZ (N=247) (%) Olmesartan (N=125) (%) HCTZ (N=88) (%) Placebo (N=42) (%) Nausea 3 2 1 0 Hyperuricemia 4 0 2 2 Dizziness 9 1 8 2 Upper Respiratory Infection 7 6 7 0 Other adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 1.0%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 1200 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, back pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, diarrhea Liver and Biliary System: SGOT increased, GGT increased, ALT increased Metabolic and Nutritional: creatine phosphokinase increased Musculoskeletal: arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia Respiratory System: coughing Skin and Appendages Disorders: rash Urinary System: hematuria Facial edema was reported in 2/1243 patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including BENICAR HCT. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse reactions that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, anaphylactic reactions Metabolic: glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Creatinine/blood urea nitrogen (BUN): Minor elevations in creatinine and BUN occurred in 1.7% and 2.5% respectively, of patients taking BENICAR HCT and 0% and 0% respectively, given placebo in controlled clinical trials. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of BENICAR HCT. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: Body as a Whole: Asthenia Gastrointestinal: Vomiting Metabolic: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high-dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular (CV) risk in diabetic patients, but the overall data are not conclusive. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ROADMAP trial (Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial, n=4447) examined the use of olmesartan, 40 mg daily, vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, normoalbuminuria, and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease. The trial met its primary endpoint, delayed onset of microalbuminuria, but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There was a finding of increased CV mortality (adjudicated sudden cardiac death, fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, revascularization death) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group (15 olmesartan vs. 3 placebo, HR 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4, 17), but the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.35, 1.18). The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300,000 patient-years. In the sub-group of diabetic patients receiving high-dose olmesartan (40 mg/d) for > 6 months, there appeared to be an increased risk of death (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1, 3.8) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. In contrast, high-dose olmesartan use in non-diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24, 0.86) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months. Overall, these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high-dose olmesartan in diabetic patients. There are, however, concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk, notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non-diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult Hypertension Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: tachycardia Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia Skin and Appendages: rash Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Liver Function Tests: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Pediatric Hypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Gastrointestinal: Vomiting Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult Hypertension Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: tachycardia Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia Skin and Appendages: rash Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Liver Function Tests: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Pediatric Hypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, sprue-like enteropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult Hypertension Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: tachycardia Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia Skin and Appendages: rash Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Liver Function Tests: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Pediatric Hypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, sprue-like enteropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high-dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular (CV) risk in diabetic patients, but the overall data are not conclusive. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ROADMAP trial (Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial, n=4447) examined the use of olmesartan, 40 mg daily, vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, normoalbuminuria, and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease. The trial met its primary endpoint, delayed onset of microalbuminuria, but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There was a finding of increased CV mortality (adjudicated sudden cardiac death, fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, revascularization death) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group (15 olmesartan vs. 3 placebo, HR 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4, 17), but the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.35, 1.18). The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300,000 patient-years. In the sub-group of diabetic patients receiving high-dose olmesartan (40 mg/d) for > 6 months, there appeared to be an increased risk of death (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1, 3.8) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. In contrast, high-dose olmesartan use in non-diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24, 0.86) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months. Overall, these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high-dose olmesartan in diabetic patients. There are, however, concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk, notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non-diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult Hypertension Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: tachycardia Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia Skin and Appendages: rash Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Liver Function Tests: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Pediatric Hypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema Gastrointestinal: Vomiting Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) . (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. Adult Hypertension The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. chest pain, peripheral edema vertigo abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea tachycardia hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia rash Body as a Whole: Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Gastrointestinal: Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Musculoskeletal: Skin and Appendages: Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Laboratory Test Findings: Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Liver Function Tests: No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. Pediatric Hypertension 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Vomiting, sprue-like enteropathy Hyperkalemia Rhabdomyolysis Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria Body as a Whole: Gastrointestinal: [see Warnings and Precautions ] (5.5) Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Musculoskeletal: Urogenital System: Skin and Appendages: Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high-dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular (CV) risk in diabetic patients, but the overall data are not conclusive. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ROADMAP trial (Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial, n=4447) examined the use of olmesartan, 40 mg daily, vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, normoalbuminuria, and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease. The trial met its primary endpoint, decrease in time-to-onset of microalbuminuria, but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There was a finding of increased CV mortality (adjudicated sudden cardiac death, fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, revascularization death) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group (15 olmesartan vs. 3 placebo, HR 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4, 17), but the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.35, 1.18). The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300,000 patient-years. In the sub-group of diabetic patients receiving high-dose olmesartan (40 mg/d) for > 6 months, there appeared to be an increased risk of death (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1, 3.8) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. In contrast, high-dose olmesartan use in non-diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24, 0.86) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months. Overall, these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high-dose olmesartan in diabetic patients. There are, however, concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk, notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non-diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) . (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. Adult Hypertension The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. chest pain, peripheral edema vertigo abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea tachycardia hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia rash Body as a Whole: Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Gastrointestinal: Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Musculoskeletal: Skin and Appendages: Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Laboratory Test Findings: Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Liver Function Tests: No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. Pediatric Hypertension 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Vomiting, sprue-like enteropathy Hyperkalemia Rhabdomyolysis Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria Body as a Whole: Gastrointestinal: [see Warnings and Precautions ] (5.5) Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Musculoskeletal: Urogenital System: Skin and Appendages: Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high-dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular (CV) risk in diabetic patients, but the overall data are not conclusive. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ROADMAP trial (Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial, n=4447) examined the use of olmesartan, 40 mg daily, vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, normoalbuminuria, and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease. The trial met its primary endpoint, delayed onset of microalbuminuria, but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There was a finding of increased CV mortality (adjudicated sudden cardiac death, fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, revascularization death) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group (15 olmesartan vs. 3 placebo, HR 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4, 17), but the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.35, 1.18). The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300,000 patient-years. In the sub-group of diabetic patients receiving high-dose olmesartan (40 mg/d) for > 6 months, there appeared to be an increased risk of death (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1, 3.8) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. In contrast, high-dose olmesartan use in non-diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24, 0.86) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months. Overall, these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high-dose olmesartan in diabetic patients. There are, however, concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk, notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non-diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Med-Health Pharma, LLC at 1-877-896-6654 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult Hypertension Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: tachycardia Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia Skin and Appendages: rash Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Liver Function Tests: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Pediatric Hypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Gastrointestinal: Vomiting Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Amlodipine (7.2): If simvastatin is co-administered with amlodipine, do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin. Olmesartan medoxomil (7.3): Nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effects. Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity. 7.1 Drug Interactions with Azor The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with Azor and other drugs, although studies have been conducted with the individual amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil components of Azor, as described below, and no significant drug interactions have been observed. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine In vitro data indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin, phenytoin, warfarin, and indomethacin. Effect of Other Agents on Amlodipine Cimetidine: Co-administration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Grapefruit juice: Co-administration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Maalox(R) (antacid): Co-administration of the antacid Maalox(R) with a single dose of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Sildenafil: A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine. When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination, each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect. Effect of Amlodipine on Other Agents Atorvastatin: Co-administration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin. Digoxin: Co-administration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers. Ethanol (alcohol): Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol. Warfarin: Co-administration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time. Simvastatin: Co-administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77% increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily. In clinical trials, amlodipine has been safely administered with thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, long-acting nitrates, sublingual nitroglycerin, digoxin, warfarin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, and oral hypoglycemic drugs. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Olmesartan Medoxomil Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Azor and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Azor in patients with diabetes [See Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid use of aliskiren with Azor in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Use with Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including AZOR. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Enter section text here 7.1 Drug Interactions with Azor The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with Azor and other drugs, although studies have been conducted with the individual amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil components of Azor, as described below, and no significant drug interactions have been observed. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine In vitro data indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin, phenytoin, warfarin, and indomethacin. Effect of Other Agents on Amlodipine Cimetidine: Co-administration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Grapefruit juice: Co-administration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Maalox(R) (antacid): Co-administration of the antacid Maalox(R) with a single dose of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Sildenafil: A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine. When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination, each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect. Effect of Amlodipine on Other Agents Atorvastatin: Co-administration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin. Digoxin: Co-administration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers. Ethanol (alcohol): Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol. Warfarin: Co-administration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time. In clinical trials, amlodipine has been safely administered with thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, long-acting nitrates, sublingual nitroglycerin, digoxin, warfarin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, and oral hypoglycemic drugs. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Olmesartan Medoxomil No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity (7.2) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypotensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7.4) Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose (7.5) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required (7.6) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides (7.6) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of BENICAR HCT with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including olmesartan medoxomil) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide In some patients the administration of a NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics. Therefore, monitor blood pressure closely. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin Angiotensin System Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on BENICAR HCT and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with BENICAR HCT in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with BENICAR HCT in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). 7.5 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.6 Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 - 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Corticosteroids, ACTH: Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Benicar and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Benicar in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with Benicar in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Colesevelam hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect (7). Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7). Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Benicar and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Benicar in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with Benicar in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Colesevelam hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including BENICAR. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. -NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect (7). -Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7). -Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose (7). -Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity (7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Benicar and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Benicar in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with Benicar in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Colesevelam hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including BENICAR. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect (7). Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7). Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose (7). Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity (7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect (7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH) /Mg(OH) ]. 3 2 Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Benicar and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Benicar in patients with diabetes Avoid use of aliskiren with Benicar in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). [see Contraindications ]. (4) hydrochloride Colesevelam Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose . [see Clinical Pharmacology ] (12.3) Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including BENICAR. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect . (7) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia . (7) Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose . (7) Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity . (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH) /Mg(OH) ]. 3 2 Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Benicar and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Benicar in patients with diabetes Avoid use of aliskiren with Benicar in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). [see Contraindications ]. (4) hydrochloride Colesevelam Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose . [see Clinical Pharmacology ] (12.3) Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including BENICAR. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect . (7) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia . (7) Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose . (7) Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity . (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil (7.2): Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS): May lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect. Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotension system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose. Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity. Amlodipine (7.3): If simvastatin is co-administered with amlodipine, do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin. Hydrochlorothiazide (7.4): Alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics: Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension. Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. Corticosteroids, ACTH: Electrolyte depletion, hypokalemia. NSAIDs: Can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. 7.1 Drug Interactions with Tribenzor The pharmacokinetics of olmesartan medoxomil, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with other drugs and Tribenzor, although studies have been conducted with the olmesartan medoxomil, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide components of Tribenzor, as described below. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Olmesartan Medoxomil No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which olmesartan medoxomil was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan medoxomil was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Tribenzor and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Tribenzor in patients with diabetes [See Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with Tribenzor in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Use with Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of olmesartan or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving Tribenzor and lithium. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine In vitro data indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin, phenytoin, warfarin, and indomethacin. Effect of Other Agents on Amlodipine Cimetidine: Co-administration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Grapefruit juice: Co-administration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Maalox(R) (antacid): Co-administration of the antacid Maalox with a single dose of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine. Sildenafil: A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil in patients with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine. When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination, each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect. Effect of Amlodipine on Other Agents Atorvastatin: Co-administration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin. Digoxin: Co-administration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers. Ethanol (alcohol): Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol. Warfarin: Co-administration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time. Simvastatin: Co-administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77% increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily. In clinical trials, amlodipine has been safely administered with thiazide diuretics, beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, long-acting nitrates, sublingual nitroglycerin, digoxin, warfarin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, and oral hypoglycemic drugs. 7.4 Drug Interactions with Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, Barbiturates, or Narcotics: Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other Antihypertensive Drugs: Additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins: Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single dose of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% and 43%, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH: Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor Amines (e.g., Norepinephrine): Possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants, Non-depolarizing (e.g., Tubocurarine): Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium: Monitor lithium levels [See Drug Interactions (7.2)] Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs: In some patients the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patients should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 1243 hypertensive patients. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse events similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. In the clinical trials, the overall frequency of adverse events was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.0% (25/1243) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and 2.0% (7/342) of patients treated with placebo. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial, the following adverse events reported with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >2% of patients, and more often on the olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide combination than on placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Olmesartan/HCTZ (N=247) (%) Placebo (N=42) (%) Olmesartan (N=125) (%) HCTZ (N=88) (%) Gastrointestinal Nausea 3 0 2 1 Metabolic Hyperuricemia 4 2 0 2 Nervous System Dizziness 9 2 1 8 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 7 0 6 7 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of >2%, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group: headache and urinary tract infection. Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 1.0%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 1200 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, back pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, diarrhea Liver and Biliary System: SGOT increased, GGT increased, SGPT increased Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperlipemia, creatine phosphokinase increased, hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal: arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia Respiratory System: coughing Skin and Appendages Disorders: rash Urinary System: hematuria Facial edema was reported in 2/1243 patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Olmesartan medoxomil Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are tachycardia and hypercholesterolemia. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, anaphylactic reactions Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine of >50% were observed in 1.3% of patients. No patients were discontinued from clinical trials of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN or creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: A greater than 20% decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit was observed in 0.0% and 0.4% (one patient), respectively, of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide patients, compared with 0.0% and 0.0%, respectively, in placebo-treated patients. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Post-Marketing Experience: The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions, peripheral edema Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, diarrhea Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 1243 hypertensive patients. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse events similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. In the clinical trials, the overall frequency of adverse events was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.0% (25/1243) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and 2.0% (7/342) of patients treated with placebo. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial, the following adverse events reported with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >2% of patients, and more often on the olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide combination than on placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Olmesartan/HCTZ (N=247) (%) Placebo (N=42) (%) Olmesartan (N=125) (%) HCTZ (N=88) (%) Gastrointestinal Nausea 3 0 2 1 Metabolic Hyperuricemia 4 2 0 2 Nervous System Dizziness 9 2 1 8 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 7 0 6 7 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of >2%, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group: headache and urinary tract infection. Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 1.0%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 1200 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, back pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, diarrhea Liver and Biliary System: SGOT increased, GGT increased, SGPT increased Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperlipemia, creatine phosphokinase increased, hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal: arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia Respiratory System: coughing Skin and Appendages Disorders: rash Urinary System: hematuria Facial edema was reported in 2/1243 patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Olmesartan medoxomil Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are tachycardia and hypercholesterolemia. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distressincluding pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, anaphylactic reactions Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine of >50% were observed in 1.3% of patients. No patients were discontinued from clinical trials of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN or creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: A greater than 20% decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit was observed in 0.0% and 0.4% (one patient), respectively, of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide patients, compared with 0.0% and 0.0%, respectively, in placebo-treated patients. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Post-Marketing Experience: The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions, peripheral edema Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, diarrhea Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions, peripheral edema Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, diarrhea, sprue-like enteropathy (see WARNINGS , Sprue-like Enteropathy ) Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria Data from one controlled trial and an epidemiologic study have suggested that high-dose olmesartan may increase cardiovascular (CV) risk in diabetic patients, but the overall data are not conclusive. The randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ROADMAP trial (Randomized Olmesartan And Diabetes MicroAlbuminuria Prevention trial, n=4447) examined the use of olmesartan, 40 mg daily, vs. placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, normoalbuminuria, and at least one additional risk factor for CV disease. The trial met its primary endpoint, delayed onset of microalbuminuria, but olmesartan had no beneficial effect on decline in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). There was a finding of increased CV mortality (adjudicated sudden cardiac death, fatal myocardial infarction, fatal stroke, revascularization death) in the olmesartan group compared to the placebo group (15 olmesartan vs. 3 placebo, HR 4.9, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4, 17), but the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction was lower with olmesartan (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.35, 1.18). The epidemiologic study included patients 65 years and older with overall exposure of > 300,000 patient-years. In the sub-group of diabetic patients receiving high-dose olmesartan (40 mg/d) for > 6 months, there appeared to be an increased risk of death (HR 2.0, 95% CI 1.1, 3.8) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. In contrast, high-dose olmesartan use in non-diabetic patients appeared to be associated with a decreased risk of death (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24, 0.86) compared to similar patients taking other angiotensin receptor blockers. No differences were observed between the groups receiving lower doses of olmesartan compared to other angiotensin blockers or those receiving therapy for < 6 months. Overall, these data raise a concern of a possible increased CV risk associated with the use of high-dose olmesartan in diabetic patients. There are, however, concerns with the credibility of the finding of increased CV risk, notably the observation in the large epidemiologic study for a survival benefit in non-diabetics of a magnitude similar to the adverse finding in diabetics."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 1243 hypertensive patients. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse events similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. In the clinical trials, the overall frequency of adverse events was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.0% (25/1243) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and 2.0% (7/342) of patients treated with placebo. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial, the following adverse events reported with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >2% of patients, and more often on the olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide combination than on placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Olmesartan/HCTZ (N=247) (%) Placebo (N=42) (%) Olmesartan (N=125) (%) HCTZ (N=88) (%) Gastrointestinal Nausea 3 0 2 1 Metabolic Hyperuricemia 4 2 0 2 Nervous System Dizziness 9 2 1 8 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 7 0 6 7 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of >2%, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group: headache and urinary tract infection. Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 1.0%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 1200 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole:chest pain, back pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, diarrhea Liver and Biliary System: SGOT increased, GGT increased, SGPT increased Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperlipemia, creatine phosphokinase increased, hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal: arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia Respiratory System: coughing Skin and Appendages Disorders: rash Urinary System: hematuria Facial edema was reported in 2/1243 patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Olmesartan medoxomil Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are tachycardia and hypercholesterolemia. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole:weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, anaphylactic reactions Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen:Increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine of >50% were observed in 1.3% of patients. No patients were discontinued from clinical trials of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN or creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit:A greater than 20% decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit was observed in 0.0 % and 0.4% (one patient), respectively, of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide patients, compared with 0.0% and 0.0%, respectively, in placebo-treated patients. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Post-Marketing Experience: The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Body as a Whole:Asthenia, angioedema Gastrointestinal: Vomiting Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide Olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 1243 hypertensive patients. Treatment with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse events similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. In the clinical trials, the overall frequency of adverse events was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.0% (25/1243) of patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide and 2.0% (7/342) of patients treated with placebo. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial, the following adverse events reported with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >2% of patients, and more often on the olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide combination than on placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Olmesartan/HCTZ (N=247) (%) Placebo (N=42) (%) Olmesartan (N=125) (%) HCTZ (N=88) (%) Gastrointestinal Nausea 3 0 2 1 Metabolic Hyperuricemia 4 2 0 2 Nervous System Dizziness 9 2 1 8 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 7 0 6 7 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of >2%, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group: headache and urinary tract infection. Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 1.0%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 1200 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole:chest pain, back pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, diarrhea Liver and Biliary System: SGOT increased, GGT increased, SGPT increased Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperlipemia, creatine phosphokinase increased, hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal: arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia Respiratory System: coughing Skin and Appendages Disorders: rash Urinary System: hematuria Facial edema was reported in 2/1243 patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Olmesartan medoxomil Other adverse events that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are tachycardia and hypercholesterolemia. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole:weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, anaphylactic reactions Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia Laboratory Test FindingsIn controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen:Increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine of >50% were observed in 1.3% of patients. No patients were discontinued from clinical trials of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN or creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit:A greater than 20% decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit was observed in 0.0 % and 0.4% (one patient), respectively, of olmesartan medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide patients, compared with 0.0% and 0.0%, respectively, in placebo-treated patients. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Post-Marketing Experience: The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Body as a Whole:Asthenia, angioedema Gastrointestinal: Vomiting Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was dizziness (3%) (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. at 1-877-437-7763 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult Hypertension Benicar has been evaluated for safety in more than 3825 patients/subjects, including more than 3275 patients treated for hypertension in controlled trials. This experience included about 900 patients treated for at least 6 months and more than 525 for at least 1 year. Treatment with Benicar was well tolerated, with an incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo. Events generally were mild, transient and had no relationship to the dose of Benicar. The overall frequency of adverse reactions was not dose-related. Analysis of gender, age and race groups demonstrated no differences between Benicar and placebo-treated patients. The rate of withdrawals due to adverse reactions in all trials of hypertensive patients was 2.4% (i.e., 79/3278) of patients treated with Benicar and 2.7% (i.e., 32/1179) of control patients. In placebo-controlled trials, the only adverse reaction that occurred in more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar and at a higher incidence versus placebo was dizziness (3% vs. 1%). The following adverse reactions occurred in placebo-controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1% of patients treated with Benicar, but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo: back pain, bronchitis, creatine phosphokinase increased, diarrhea, headache, hematuria, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, influenza-like symptoms, pharyngitis, rhinitis and sinusitis. The incidence of cough was similar in placebo (0.7%) and Benicar (0.9%) patients. Other potentially important adverse reactions that have been reported with an incidence of greater than 0.5%, whether or not attributed to treatment, in the more than 3100 hypertensive patients treated with Benicar monotherapy in controlled or open-label trials are listed below. Body as a Whole: chest pain, peripheral edema Central and Peripheral Nervous System: vertigo Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, nausea Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders: tachycardia Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipemia, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, myalgia Skin and Appendages: rash Facial edema was reported in five patients receiving Benicar. Angioedema has been reported with angiotensin II antagonists. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Benicar. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.3 g/dL and 0.3 volume percent, respectively) were observed. Liver Function Tests: Elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin were observed infrequently. Five patients (0.1%) assigned to Benicar and one patient (0.2%) assigned to placebo in clinical trials were withdrawn because of abnormal liver chemistries (transaminases or total bilirubin). Of the five Benicar patients, three had elevated transaminases, which were attributed to alcohol use, and one had a single elevated bilirubin value, which normalized while treatment continued. Pediatric Hypertension No relevant differences were identified between the adverse experience profile for pediatric patients aged 1 to16 years and that previously reported for adult patients. The following adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Asthenia, angioedema, anaphylactic reactions Gastrointestinal: Vomiting, sprue-like enteropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperkalemia Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis Urogenital System: Acute renal failure, increased blood creatinine levels Skin and Appendages: Alopecia, pruritus, urticaria"$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS No significant drug interactions were reported in studies in which Benicar was co-administered with digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers. The bioavailability of olmesartan was not significantly altered by the co-administration of antacids [Al(OH)3/Mg(OH)2]. Olmesartan medoxomil is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and has no effects on P450 enzymes; thus, interactions with drugs that inhibit, induce, or are metabolized by those enzymes are not expected. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Benicar and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Benicar in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with Benicar in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Colesevelam hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"Drug Interactions See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions.",$$
"Drug Interactions: See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions.",$$
"Drug Interactions: See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions. Drug interaction with bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam Concomitant administration of 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil and 3750 mg colesevelam hydrochloride in healthy subjects resulted in 28% reduction in Cmax and 39% reduction in AUC of olmesartan. Lesser effects, 4% and 15% reduction in Cmax and AUC respectively, were observed when olmesartan medoxomil was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions).",$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid fetal (in utero) exposure (5.1). Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension (5.2). Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension in volume- or salt-depleted patients with treatment initiation (5.3). Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment (5.4). Sprue-like enteropathy has been reported. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is found (5.5). Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Benicar as soon as possible [see Use in specific Populations (8.1)]. Children <1 year of age must not receive Benicar for hypertension. Drugs that act directly on the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can have effects on the development of immature kidneys [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, such as volume- and/or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may be anticipated after initiation of treatment with Benicar. Initiate treatment under close medical supervision. If hypotension does occur, place the patient in the supine position and, if necessary, give an intravenous infusion of normal saline [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment, which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. As a consequence of inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Benicar. In patients whose renal function may depend upon the activity of the renin angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., patients with severe congestive heart failure), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists has been associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Benicar [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) have been reported. There has been no long-term use of Benicar in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis, but similar results may be expected. Severe, chronic diarrhea with substantial weight loss has been reported in patients taking olmesartan months to years after drug initiation. Intestinal biopsies of patients often demonstrated villous atrophy. If a patient develops these symptoms during treatment with olmesartan, exclude other etiologies. Consider discontinuation of Benicar in cases where no other etiology is identified."$$
