"ADVERSE REACTIONS Patients with moderate to severe COPD or COPD patients who are unresponsive to bronchodilators should be monitored closely for COPD exacerbation and fluid retention. The following adverse reactions have been associated with use of anabolic steroids: Hepatic Cholestatic jaundice with, rarely, hepatic necrosis and death. Hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis with long-term therapy (see WARNINGS ). Reversible changes in liver function tests also occur including increased bromsulfophthalein (BSP) retention, changes in alkaline phosphatase and increases in serum bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT, SGPT). In Males Prepubertal: Phallic enlargement and increased frequency or persistence of erections. Postpubertal: Inhibition of testicular function, testicular atrophy and oligospermia, impotence, chronic priapism, epididymitis, and bladder irritability. In Females Clitoral enlargement, menstrual irregularities. CNS Habituation, excitation, insomnia, depression, and changes in libido. Hematologic Bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy. Breast Gynecomastia. Larynx Deepening of the voice in females. Hair Hirsutism and male pattern baldness in females. Skin Acne (especially in females and prepubertal males). Skeletal Premature closure of epiphyses in children (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Fluid and Electrolytes Edema, retention of serum electrolytes (sodium chloride, potassium, phosphate, calcium). Metabolic/Endocrine Decreased glucose tolerance (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ), increased creatinine excretion, increased serum levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). Masculinization of the fetus. Inhibition of gonadotropin secretion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Patients with moderate to severe COPD or COPD patients who are unresponsive to bronchodilators should be monitored closely for COPD exacerbation and fluid retention. The following adverse reactions have been associated with use of anabolic steroids: Hepatic Cholestatic jaundice with, rarely, hepatic necrosis and death. Hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis with long-term therapy (see WARNINGS). Reversible changes in liver function tests also occur including increased bromsulfophthalein (BSP) retention, changes in alkaline phosphatase and increases in serum bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT, SGPT). In Males Prepubertal: Phallic enlargement and increased frequency or persistence of erections. Postpubertal: Inhibition of testicular function, testicular atrophy and oligospermia, impotence, chronic priapism, epididymitis, and bladder irritability. In Females Clitoral enlargement, menstrual irregularities. CNS Habituation, excitation, insomnia, depression, and changes in libido. Hematologic Bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy. Breast Gynecomastia. Larynx Deepening of the voice in females. Hair Hirsutism and male pattern baldness in females. Skin Acne (especially in females and prepubertal males). Skeletal Premature closure of epiphyses in children (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use). Fluid and Electrolytes Edema, retention of serum electrolytes (sodium chloride, potassium, phosphate, calcium). Metabolic/Endocrine Decreased glucose tolerance (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests), increased creatinine excretion, increased serum levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). Masculinization of the fetus. Inhibition of gonadotropin secretion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Patients with moderate to severe COPD or COPD patients who are unresponsive to bronchodilators should be monitored closely for COPD exacerbation and fluid retention. The following adverse reactions have been associated with use of anabolic steroids: Hepatic: Cholestatic jaundice with, rarely, hepatic necrosis and death. Hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis with long-term therapy (see WARNINGS ). Reversible changes in liver function tests also occur including increased bromsulfophthalein (BSP) retention, changes in alkaline phosphatase and increases in serum bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT, SGPT). In Males Prepubertal: Phallic enlargement and increased frequency or persistence of erections. Postpubertal: Inhibition of testicular function, testicular atrophy and oligospermia, impotence, chronic priapism, epididymitis, and bladder irritability. In Females Clitoral enlargement, menstrual irregularities CNS: Habituation, excitation, insomnia, depression, and changes in libido. Hematologic: Bleeding in patients on concomitant oral anticoagulant therapy. Breast: Gynecomastia. Larynx: Deepening of the voice in females. Hair: Hirsutism and male pattern baldness in females. Skin: Acne (especially in females and prepubertal males). Skeletal: Premature closure of epiphyses in children (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Fluid and Electrolytes: Edema, retention of serum electrolytes (sodium chloride, potassium, phosphate, calcium). Metabolic/Endocrine: Decreased glucose tolerance (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ), increased creatinine excretion, increased serum levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). Masculinization of the fetus. Inhibition of gonadotropin secretion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Patients with moderate to severe COPD or COPD patients who are unresponsive to bronchodilators should be monitored closely for COPD exacerbation and fluid retention. The following adverse reactions have been associated with use of anabolic steroids: Hepatic: Cholestatic jaundice with, rarely, hepatic necrosis and death. Hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis with long-term therapy (see WARNINGS ). Reversible changes in liver function tests also occur including increased bromsulfophthalein (BSP) retention, changes in alkaline phosphatase and increases in serum bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT, SGPT). In Males Prepubertal: Phallic enlargement and increased frequency or persistence of erections. Postpubertal: Inhibition of testicular function, testicular atrophy and oligospermia, impotence, chronic priapism, epididymitis, and bladder irritability. In Females Clitoral enlargement, menstrual irregularities. CNS: Habituation, excitation, insomnia, depression, and changes in libido. Hematologic: Bleeding in patients on concomitant oral anticoagulant therapy. Breast: Gynecomastia. Larynx: Deepening of the voice in females. Hair: Hirsutism and male pattern baldness in females. Skin: Acne (especially in females and prepubertal males). Skeletal: Premature closure of epiphyses in children (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Fluid and Electrolytes: Edema, retention of serum electrolytes (sodium chloride, potassium, phosphate, calcium). Metabolic/Endocrine: Decreased glucose tolerance (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ), increased creatinine excretion, increased serum levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). Masculinization of the fetus. Inhibition of gonadotropin secretion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Patients with moderate to severe COPD or COPD patients who are unresponsive to bronchodilators should be monitored closely for COPD exacerbation and fluid retention. The following adverse reactions have been associated with use of anabolic steroids: Hepatic: Cholestatic jaundice with, rarely, hepatic necrosis and death. Hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis with long-term therapy (See WARNINGS). Reversible changes in liver function tests also occur including increased bromsulfophthalein (BSP) retention, changes in alkaline phosphatase and increases in serum bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT, SGPT) In males: Prepubertal: Phallic enlargement and increased frequency or persistence of erections. Postpubertal: Inhibition of testicular function, testicular atrophy and oligospermia, impotence, chronic priapism, epididymitis, and bladder irritability. In females: Clitoral enlargement, menstrual irregularities. CNS: Habituation, excitation, insomnia, depression, and changes in libido. Hematologic: Bleeding in patients on concomitant oral anticoagulant therapy. Breast: Gynecomastia. Larynx: Deepening of the voice in females. Hair: Hirsutism and male pattern baldness in females. Skin: Acne (especially in females and prepubertal males). Skeletal: Premature closure of epiphyses in children (See PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric use). Fluid and electrolytes: Edema, retention of serum electrolytes (sodium chloride, potassium, phosphate, calcium). Metabolic/Endocrine: Decreased glucose tolerance (See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests), increased creatinine excretion, increased serum levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). Masculinization of the fetus. Inhibition of gonadotropin secretion."$$
"Cholestatic hepatitis and jaundice may occur with 17-alpha-alkylated androgens at a relatively low dose. If cholestatic hepatitis with jaundice appears or if liver function tests become abnormal, oxandrolone should be discontinued and the etiology should be determined. Drug-induced jaundice is reversible when the medication is discontinued. In patients with breast cancer, anabolic steroid therapy may cause hypercalcemia by stimulating osteolysis. Oxandrolone therapy should be discontinued if hypercalcemia occurs. Edema with or without congestive heart failure may be a serious complication in patients with pre-existing cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease. Concomitant administration of adrenal cortical steroid or ACTH may increase the edema. In children, androgen therapy may accelerate bone maturation without producing compensatory gain in linear growth. This adverse effect results in compromised adult height. The younger the child, the greater the risk of compromising final mature height. The effect on bone maturation should be monitored by assessing bone age of the left wrist and hand every 6 months (See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests). Geriatric patients treated with androgenic anabolic steroids may be at an increased risk for the development of prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma. ANABOLIC STEROIDS HAVE NOT BEEN SHOWN TO ENHANCE ATHLETIC ABILITY."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants Anabolic steroids may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased in order to maintain desired prothrombin time. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when anabolic steroids are started or stopped. Warfarin A multidose study of oxandrolone, given as 5 or 10 mg bid in 15 healthy subjects concurrently treated with warfarin, resulted in a mean increase in S-warfarin half-life from 26 to 48 hours and AUC from 4.55 to 12.08 ng\\342\\210\\231hr/mL; similar increases in R-warfarin half-life and AUC were also detected. Microscopic hematuria (9/15) and gingival bleeding (1/15) were also observed. A 5.5-fold decrease in the mean warfarin dose from 6.13 mg/day to 1.13 mg/day (approximately 80 to 85% reduction of warfarin dose), was necessary to maintain a target INR of 1.5. When oxandrolone therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving treatment with warfarin, the INR or prothrombin time (PT) should be monitored closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR or PT has been achieved. Furthermore, in patients receiving both drugs, careful monitoring of the INR or PT, and adjustment of the warfarin dosage if indicated are recommended when the oxandrolone dose is changed or discontinued. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of occult bleeding. Oral Hypoglycemic Agents Oxandrolone may inhibit the metabolism of oral hypoglycemic agents. Adrenal Steroids or ACTH In patients with edema, concomitant administration with adrenal cortical steroids or ACTH may increase the edema."$$
"Drug Interactions: Anticoagulants Anabolic steroids may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased in order to maintain desired prothrombin time. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when anabolic steroids are started or stopped. Warfarin A multidose study of oxandrolone, given as 5 or 10 mg bid in 15 healthy subjects concurrently treated with warfarin, resulted in a mean increase in S-warfarin half-life from 26 to 48 hours and AUC from 4.55 to 12.08 ng\\342\\210\\231hr/mL; similar increases in R-warfarin half-life and AUC were also detected. Microscopic hematuria (9/15) and gingival bleeding (1/15) were also observed. A 5.5-fold decrease in the mean warfarin dose from 6.13 mg/day to 1.13 mg/day (approximately 80 to 85% reduction of warfarin dose), was necessary to maintain a target INR of 1.5. When oxandrolone therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving treatment with warfarin, the INR or prothrombin time (PT) should be monitored closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR or PT has been achieved. Furthermore, in patients receiving both drugs, careful monitoring of the INR or PT, and adjustment of the warfarin dosage if indicated are recommended when the oxandrolone dose is changed or discontinued. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of occult bleeding. Oral Hypoglycemic Agents Oxandrolone may inhibit the metabolism of oral hypoglycemic agents. Adrenal Steroids or ACTH In patients with edema, concomitant administration with adrenal cortical steroids or ACTH may increase the edema."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants: Anabolic steroids may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased in order to maintain desired prothrombin time. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when anabolic steroids are started or stopped. Warfarin: A multidose study of oxandrolone, given as 5 or 10 mg bid in 15 healthy subjects concurrently treated with warfarin, resulted in a mean increase in S-warfarin half-life from 26 to 48 hours and AUC from 4.55 to 12.08 ng*hr/mL; similar increases in R-warfarin half-life and AUC were also detected. Microscopic hematuria (9/15) and gingival bleeding (1/15) were also observed. A 5.5-fold decrease in the mean warfarin dose from 6.13 mg/day to 1.13 mg/day (approximately 80-85% reduction of warfarin dose), was necessary to maintain a target INR of 1.5. When oxandrolone therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving treatment with warfarin, the INR or prothrombin time (PT) should be monitored closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR or PT has been achieved. Furthermore, in patients receiving both drugs, careful monitoring of the INR or PT, and adjustment of the warfarin dosage if indicated are recommended when the oxandrolone dose is changed or discontinued. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of occult bleeding. Oral hypoglycemic agents: Oxandrolone may inhibit the metabolism of oral hypoglycemic agents. Adrenal steroids or ACTH: In patients with edema, concomitant administration with adrenal cortical steroids or ACTH may increase the edema."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants: Anabolic steroids may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased in order to maintain desired prothrombin time. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when anabolic steroids are started or stopped. Warfarin: A multidose study of oxandrolone, given as 5 or 10 mg BID in 15 healthy subjects concurrently treated with warfarin, resulted in a mean increase in S-warfarin half-life from 26 to 48 hours and AUC from 4.55 to 12.08 ng-hr/mL; similar increases in R-warfarin half-life and AUC were also detected. Microscopic hematuria (9/15) and gingival bleeding (1/15) were also observed. A 5.5-fold decrease in the mean warfarin dose from 6.13 mg/day to 1.13 mg/day (approximately 80-85% reduction of warfarin dose), was necessary to maintain a target INR of 1.5. When oxandrolone therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving treatment with warfarin, the INR or prothrombin time (PT) should be monitored closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR or PT has been achieved. Furthermore, in patients receiving both drugs, careful monitoring of the INR or PT, and adjustment of the warfarin dosage if indicated are recommended when the oxandrolone dose is changed or discontinued. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of occult bleeding. Oral Hypoglycemic Agents: Oxandrolone may inhibit the metabolism of oral hypoglycemic agents. Adrenal Steroids or ACTH: In patients with edema, concomitant administration with adrenal cortical steroids or ACTH may increase the edema."$$
