"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Urinary Retention: Caution should be exercised in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of urinary retention risk. (5.1) Gastrointestinal Disorders: Use with caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux and/or those taking drugs that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis and in patients with decreased intestinal motility or gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention. (5.2) Skin Transference: Advise patients to cover the application site with clothing if skin-to-skin contact at the application site is anticipated. Wash hands immediately after product application. (5.3) Flammable Gel: Contains alcohol-based gel. Avoid open fire or smoking until the gel has dried. (5.4) Central Nervous System Effects: Somnolence has been reported with drugs containing oxybutynin. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how GELNIQUE 3% affects them. (5.5) Myasthenia Gravis: Administer GELNIQUE 3% with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction. (5.6) Angioedema: Angioedema has been reported with oral oxybutynin use. If symptoms of angioedema occur, discontinue GELNIQUE 3% and initiate appropriate therapy. (5.7) Controlled Narrow-Angle Glaucoma: Administer GELNIQUE 3% with caution in patients being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma. (5.8) 5.1 Urinary Retention Use GELNIQUE 3% with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. 5.2 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders Use GELNIQUE 3% with caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention. GELNIQUE 3%, like other anticholinergic drugs, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis or intestinal atony. GELNIQUE 3% should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and/or who are concurrently taking drugs (such as bisphosphonates) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis. 5.3 Skin Transference Transfer of oxybutynin to another person can occur when vigorous bare skin-to-skin contact is made with the application site. To minimize the potential transfer of oxybutynin from treated skin to another person, patients should cover the application site with clothing after the gel has dried if direct skin-to-skin contact at the application site is anticipated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients should wash their hands immediately after application of GELNIQUE 3%. 5.4 Flammable Gel GELNIQUE 3% is an alcohol-based gel and is therefore flammable. Avoid open fire or smoking until gel has dried. 5.5 Central Nervous System Effects Drugs containing oxybutynin are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects. A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including headache, dizziness, somnolence, confusion and hallucinations . Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how GELNIQUE 3% affects them. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, drug discontinuation should be considered. 5.6 Myasthenia Gravis Administer GELNIQUE 3% with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction. 5.7 Angioedema Angioedema requiring hospitalization and emergency medical treatment has occurred with the first or subsequent doses of oral oxybutynin. In the event of angioedema, oxybutynin containing product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided. 5.8 Controlled Narrow-Angle Glaucoma Administer GELNIQUE 3% with caution in patients being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Urinary Retention: Use caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. (5.1) Gastrointestinal Disorders: Use caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased intestinal motility because of the risk of gastric retention. Use caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux and/or those taking drugs that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis. (5.2) Angioedema: Angioedema has been reported with oral oxybutynin use. If symptoms of angioedema occur, discontinue GELNIQUE and initiate appropriate therapy. (5.3) Skin Hypersensitivity: Discontinue GELNIQUE in patients with skin hypersensitivity. (5.4) Central Nervous System Effects: Somnolence has been reported with GELNIQUE. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how GELNIQUE affects them. (5.5) Skin Transference: Advise patients to cover the application site with clothing if skin-to-skin contact at the application site is anticipated. Wash hands immediately after product application. (5.6) Flammable Gel: Contains alcohol-based gel. Avoid open fire or smoking until the gel has dried. (5.7) 5.1 Urinary Retention Administer GELNIQUE with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. 5.2 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders Administer GELNIQUE with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention. GELNIQUE, like other anticholinergic drugs, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis or intestinal atony. GELNIQUE should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and/or who are concurrently taking drugs (such as bisphosphonates) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis. 5.3 Angioedema Angioedema requiring hospitalization and emergency medical treatment has occurred with the first or subsequent doses of oral oxybutynin. In the event of angioedema, oxybutynin-containing product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided. 5.4 Skin Hypersensitivity In a controlled clinical trial of skin sensitization, 1 of 200 patients (0.5%) demonstrated skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE. Patients who develop skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE should discontinue drug treatment. 5.5 Central Nervous System Effects GELNIQUE is associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects. A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including headache, dizziness, somnolence, confusion and hallucinations. Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how GELNIQUE affects them. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, drug discontinuation should be considered. 5.6 Skin Transference Transfer of oxybutynin to another person can occur when vigorous skin-to-skin contact is made with the application site. To minimize the potential transfer of oxybutynin from GELNIQUE-treated skin to another person, patients should cover the application site with clothing after the gel has dried if direct skin-to-skin contact at the application site is anticipated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients should wash their hands immediately after application of GELNIQUE. 5.7 Flammable Gel GELNIQUE is an alcohol-based gel and is therefore flammable. Avoid open fire or smoking until gel has dried. 5.8 Myasthenia Gravis Administer GELNIQUE with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Urinary Retention: Use caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. (5.1) Gastrointestinal Disorders: Use caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased intestinal motility because of the risk of gastric retention. Use caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux and/or those taking drugs that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis. (5.2) Central Nervous System Effects: Somnolence has been reported with products containing oxybutynin. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how OXYTROL affects them. (5.3) Angioedema: Angioedema has been reported with oral oxybutynin use. If symptoms of angioedema occur, discontinue OXYTROL and initiate appropriate therapy. (5.4) Skin Hypersensitivity: Discontinue OXYTROL in patients with skin hypersensitivity. (5.5) Myasthenia gravis: Use with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction. (5.6) 5.1 Urinary Retention Administer OXYTROL with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. 5.2 Risks in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders Administer OXYTROL with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention. OXYTROL, like other anticholinergic drugs, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis or intestinal atony. OXYTROL should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and/or who are concurrently taking drugs (such as bisphosphonates) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis. 5.3 Central Nervous System Effects Products containing oxybutynin are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects. A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including headache, dizziness, somnolence, confusion and hallucinations. Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how OXYTROL affects them. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, drug discontinuation should be considered. 5.4 Angioedema Angioedema requiring hospitalization and emergency medical treatment has occurred with the first or subsequent doses of oral oxybutynin. In the event of angioedema, OXYTROL should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided. 5.5 Skin Hypersensitivity Patients who develop skin hypersensitivity to OXYTROL should discontinue drug treatment. 5.6 Exacerbation of Symptoms of Myasthenia Gravis Administer OXYTROL with caution to patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Urinary Retention: Use caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. (5.1) Gastrointestinal Disorders: Use caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased intestinal motility because of the risk of gastric retention. Use caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux and/or those taking drugs that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis (5.2) Skin Hypersensitivity: Discontinue GELNIQUE in patients with skin hypersensitivity. (5.3) Skin transference: Advise patients to cover the application site with clothing if skin-to-skin contact at the application site is anticipated. Wash hands immediately after product application. (5.4) Flammable Gel: Contains alcohol-based gel. Avoid open fire or smoking until the gel has dried. (5.5) 5.1 Urinary Retention Administer GELNIQUE with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. 5.2 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders Administer GELNIQUE with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention. GELNIQUE, like other anticholinergic drugs, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis or intestinal atony. GELNIQUE should be used with caution in patients who have gastroesophageal reflux and/or who are concurrently taking drugs (such as bisphosphonates) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis. 5.3 Skin Hypersensitivity In a controlled clinical trial of skin sensitization, 1 of 200 patients (0.5%) demonstrated skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE. Patients who develop skin hypersensitivity to GELNIQUE should discontinue drug treatment. 5.4 Skin Transference Transfer of oxybutynin to another person can occur when vigorous skin-to-skin contact is made with the application site. To minimize the potential transfer of oxybutynin from GELNIQUE-treated skin to another person, patients should cover the application site with clothing after the gel has dried if direct skin-to-skin contact at the application site is anticipated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients should wash their hands immediately after application of GELNIQUE. 5.5 Flammable Gel GELNIQUE is an alcohol-based gel and is therefore flammable. Avoid open fire or smoking until gel has dried. 5.6 Myasthenia Gravis Administer GELNIQUE with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis, a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reactions (incidence > 5% and > placebo) were dry mouth and application site reactions. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience The safety of GELNIQUE was evaluated in 789 patients (389 randomized to GELNIQUE 1 g and 400 randomized to placebo) during a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 12-week clinical efficacy and safety study. A subset of these 789 patients (N=216) participated in the 14-week open-label safety extension that followed the placebo-controlled study. Of 216 patients in the safety extension, 107 were randomized to placebo gel during the double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study. In the combined double-blind, placebo-controlled study and the open-label safety extension, a total of 496 patients were exposed to at least one dose of GELNIQUE. Four hundred thirty-one (431) patients received at least 12 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment and 85 patients received 26 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment. The study population primarily consisted of Caucasian women (approximately 90%) with an average age of 59 years who had overactive bladder with urge urinary incontinence. Table 1 lists adverse events, regardless of causality, that were reported in the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study at an incidence greater than placebo and in greater than 2% of patients treated with GELNIQUE. Table 1: Common Adverse Events in the Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled 12-Week Study (>2% and > placebo) Adverse Event GELNIQUE 1 gram N=389 n (%) Placebo N=400 n (%) * Includes application site pruritus, dermatitis, papules, anesthesia, erythema, irritation, pain and papules Dry mouth 29 (7.5) 11 (2.8) Urinary tract infection 27 (6.9) 17 (4.3) Application site reactions* 21 (5.4) 4 (1.0) Upper respiratory tract infection 21 (5.4) 20 (5.0) Dizziness 11 (2.8) 4 (1.0) Nasopharyngitis 11 (2.8) 9 (2.3) Fatigue 8 (2.1) 4 (1.0) Gastroenteritis viral 8 (2.1) 7 (1.8) The most common adverse reactions, defined as adverse events judged by the investigator to be reasonably associated with the use of study drug, that were reported in >= 1% of GELNIQUE-treated patients were dry mouth (6.9%), application site reactions (5.4%), dizziness (1.5%), headache (1.5%), constipation (1.3%), and pruritus (1.3%). Application site pruritus (2.1%) and application site dermatitis (1.8%) were the most commonly reported application site reactions. A majority of treatment-related adverse events were described as mild or moderate in intensity, except for two patients reporting severe headache. No serious adverse events were judged by the investigator to be treatment-related during the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study. The most common adverse reaction leading to drug discontinuation was application site reaction (0.8% with GELNIQUE versus 0.3% with placebo). The most common adverse reactions reported during the 14-week open-label extension study were application site reactions (6.0%) and dry mouth (1.9%). The most common reason for premature discontinuation was application site reactions (9 patients or 4.2%). Two of these 9 patients experienced application site reactions of severe intensity (dermatitis, urticaria, and erythema)."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most common adverse reactions (incidence > 5% and > placebo) were dry mouth, urinary tract infection, and application site reactions. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis, Inc. at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience The safety of GELNIQUE was evaluated in 789 patients (389 randomized to GELNIQUE 1 g and 400 randomized to placebo) during a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 12-week clinical efficacy and safety study. A subset of these 789 patients (N = 216) participated in the 14-week open-label safety extension that followed the placebo-controlled study. Of 216 patients in the safety extension, 107 were randomized to placebo gel during the double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study. In the combined double-blind, placebo-controlled study and the open-label safety extension, a total of 496 patients were exposed to at least one dose of GELNIQUE. Four hundred thirty-one (431) patients received at least 12 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment and 85 patients received 26 weeks of GELNIQUE treatment. The study population primarily consisted of Caucasian women (approximately 90%) with an average age of 59 years who had overactive bladder with urge urinary incontinence. Table 1 lists adverse reactions that were reported in the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study in greater than 2% of patients treated with GELNIQUE and at an incidence greater than placebo. Table 1: Common Adverse Reactions in the Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled 12-Week Study (> 2% and > placebo) Adverse Reaction GELNIQUE 1 gram N = 389 n (%) Placebo N = 400 n (%) Dry mouth 29 (7.5) 11 (2.8) Urinary tract infection 27 (6.9) 17 (4.3) Application site reactions* 21 (5.4) 4 (1.0) Upper respiratory tract infection 21 (5.4) 20 (5.0) Dizziness 11 (2.8) 4 (1.0) Nasopharyngitis 11 (2.8) 9 (2.3) Fatigue 8 (2.1) 4 (1.0) Gastroenteritis viral 8 (2.1) 7 (1.8) * Includes application site pruritus, dermatitis, papules, anesthesia, erythema, irritation, pain and papules Other common adverse reactions that were reported in >= 1% of GELNIQUE-treated patients were headache (1.5%), constipation (1.3%), and pruritus (1.3%). Application site pruritus (2.1%) and application site dermatitis (1.8%) were the most commonly reported application site reactions. A majority of adverse reactions were described as mild or moderate in intensity, except for two patients reporting severe headache. The most common adverse reaction leading to drug discontinuation was application site reaction (0.8% with GELNIQUE versus 0.3% with placebo). The most common adverse reactions reported during the 14-week open-label extension study were application site reactions (6.0%) and dry mouth (1.9%). The most common reason for premature discontinuation was application site reactions (9 patients or 4.2%). Two of these 9 patients experienced application site reactions of severe intensity (dermatitis, urticaria, and erythema). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of GELNIQUE. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, somnolence, confusion Psychiatric Disorders: hallucinations"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>= 3%) are dry mouth, and application site reactions. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of GELNIQUE 3% was evaluated in 626 patients (210 randomized to GELNIQUE 3% 56 mg/day, 214 randomized to GELNIQUE 3% 84 mg/day and 202 randomized to placebo) during a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 12-week clinical efficacy and safety study. A subset of these 626 patients (N = 77) participated in the 24-week open-label safety extension that followed the placebo-controlled study. Of the 77 patients in the safety extension, 24 were randomized to placebo gel during the double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study. In the combined double-blind, placebo-controlled study and the open-label safety extension, a total of 441 patients were exposed to at least one dose of GELNIQUE 3%. 364 patients received at least 12 weeks of GELNIQUE 3% treatment and 66 patients received an additional 24 weeks of GELNIQUE 3% treatment during the open-label safety extension. The study population primarily consisted of women (87%) of Caucasian descent (87%) with an average age of 59 years who had overactive bladder with urge urinary incontinence. Table 1 lists adverse reactions (ARs), regardless of causality, that were reported in the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 12-week study at an incidence greater than placebo and in greater than 3% of patients treated with GELNIQUE 3%. Overall, 672 ARs were experienced by 51.9% of patients. Majority of the ARs were mild to moderate in intensity. The AR most commonly reported was dry mouth which was experienced by a greater proportion of patients in the oxybutynin group than the placebo group (26 patients [12.1%] in the oxybutynin 84 mg group, 10 patients [5.0%] in the placebo group). Application site erythema was the next most commonly reported AR (8 patients [3.7%] in the oxybutynin 84 mg group and 2 patients [1.0%] in the placebo group). Other commonly reported ARs experienced by more patients in the oxybutynin groups compared with placebo were application site rash (7 patients [3.3%] in the oxybutynin 84 mg group and 1 patient [0.5%] in the placebo group); application site pruritus (6 patients [2.8%] in the oxybutynin 84 mg group and 1 patient [0.5%] in the placebo group). The overall rate of application site adverse reactions of any kind was 14.2% in patients receiving GELNIQUE 3% as compared to 3.7% in patients receiving placebo. Other cholinergic AEs < 2% in occurrence include dry eyes and blurred vision. There were no deaths during the study. There were no clinically meaningful changes in vital signs, laboratory values, or ECG examinations over the course of the study. Table 1: Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions that were reported in greater than 3% of patients treated with GELNIQUE 3% and at an incidence greater than placebo. Treatment Group Preferred Term* Oxybutynin 84 mg/day (N = 214) Placebo (N = 202) n (%) n (%) Dry mouth 26 (12.1) 10 (5.0) Application site erythema 8 (3.7) 2 (1.0) Application site rash 7 (3.3) 1 (0.5) * Each patient is counted only once within each treatment, body system and preferred term. All percentages are based on number of patients in the ITT population within each treatment group as denominator. During the 24-week open-label safety extension, the most commonly reported ARs were urinary tract infection and nasopharyngitis reported in 4 patients each (5.2%), followed by conjunctivitis and application site erythema (both occurred in 3 patients [3.9%]). One patient prematurely discontinued due to the application site erythema and pruritus (both considered to be of mild severity). 6. 2 Po s t m a r k e t ing E x perie n ce The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of GELNIQUE. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, somnolence, confusion Psychiatric Disorders: hallucinations"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (incidence > 5% and > placebo) are application site reactions and dry mouth. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or contact the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The safety of OXYTROL was evaluated in a total of 417 patients who participated in two clinical efficacy and safety studies and an open-label extension. Additional safety information was collected in earlier phase trials. In the two pivotal studies, a total of 246 patients received OXYTROL during the 12-week treatment periods. A total of 411 patients entered the open-label extension and of those, 65 patients and 52 patients received OXYTROL for at least 24 weeks and at least 36 weeks, respectively. No deaths were reported during treatment. No serious adverse events related to treatment were reported. Adverse reactions reported in the pivotal trials are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below. Table 1: Number (%) of adverse reactions occurring in >= 2% of OXYTROL-treated patients and greater in the OXYTROL group than in the placebo group (Study 1). Adverse Reaction Placebo (N = 132) OXYTROL (3.9 mg/day) (N = 125) N % N % Application site pruritus 8 6.1% 21 16.8% Dry mouth 11 8.3% 12 9.6% Application site erythema 3 2.3% 7 5.6% Application site vesicles 0 0.0% 4 3.2% Diarrhea 3 2.3% 4 3.2% Dysuria 0 0.0% 3 2.4% Table 2: Number (%) of adverse reactions occurring in >= 2% of OXYTROL-treated patients and greater in the OXYTROL group than in the placebo group (Study 2). Adverse Reaction Placebo (N = 117) OXYTROL (3.9 mg/day) (N = 121) N % N % Application site pruritus 5 4.3% 17 14.0% Application site erythema 2 1.7% 10 8.3% Dry mouth 2 1.7% 5 4.1% Constipation 0 0.0% 4 3.3% Application site rash 1 0.9% 4 3.3% Application site macules 0 0.0% 3 2.5% Abnormal vision 0 0.0% 3 2.5% Most adverse reactions were described as mild or moderate in intensity. Severe application site reactions were reported by 6.4% of OXYTROL-treated patients in Study 1 and by 5.0% of OXYTROL-treated patients in Study 2. Adverse reactions that resulted in discontinuation were reported by 11.2% of OXYTROL-treated patients in Study 1 and 10.7% of OXYTROL-treated patients in Study 2. Most of these discontinuations were due to application site reaction. In the two pivotal studies, no patient discontinued OXYTROL treatment due to dry mouth. In the open-label extension, the most common treatment-related adverse reactions were: application site pruritus, application site erythema, and dry mouth. In a controlled clinical trial of skin sensitization, none of the 103 test subjects demonstrated skin hypersensitivity to OXYTROL. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of OXYTROL. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, somnolence, confusion Psychiatric Disorders: hallucinations"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug-drug interaction studies have been performed with GELNIQUE 3%. Concomitant use with other anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agents may increase the frequency and/or severity of dry mouth, constipation, and blurred vision and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects. (7.1) 7.1 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of GELNIQUE 3% with other anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agents may increase the frequency and/or severity of dry mouth, blurred vision, and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug-drug interaction studies have been performed with GELNIQUE. Other Anticholinergics (antimuscarinics): Concomitant use with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and/or severity of dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects. (7.1) 7.1 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of GELNIQUE with other anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agents may increase the frequency and/or severity of dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, somnolence and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug-drug interaction studies have been performed with GELNIQUE. Other Anticholinergics (muscarinic antagonists): Concomitant use with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and/or severity of dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects. (7.1) 7.1 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of GELNIQUE with other anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agents may increase the frequency and/or severity of dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, somnolence and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug-drug interaction studies have been performed with OXYTROL. Other Anticholinergics (muscarinic antagonists): Concomitant use with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and/or severity of dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects. (7.1) 7.1 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of OXYTROL with other anticholinergic drugs, or with other agents that produce dry mouth, constipation, somnolence, and/or other anticholinergic-like effects may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility. 7.2 Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors Pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed with patients concomitantly receiving cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors, such as antimycotic agents (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, and miconazole) or macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin and clarithromycin)."$$
