"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of life-threatening respiratory depression in patients with chronic pulmonary disease or in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients: Monitor closely, particularly during initiation and titration. (5.6) Adrenal Insufficiency: If diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement of corticosteroids, and wean patient off of the opioid. ( 5.7 ) Severe hypotension: Monitor during dosage initiation and titration. Avoid use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with circulatory shock ( 5.8 ) Risks of use in patients with increased intracranial pressure, brain tumors, head injury, or impaired consciousness: Monitor for sedation and respiratory depression. Avoid use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. ( 5.9 ) 5.1 Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse XTAMPZA ER contains oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, XTAMPZA ER exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9)]. As extended-release products such as XTAMPZA ER deliver the opioid over an extended period of time, there is a greater risk for overdose and death due to the larger amount of oxycodone present [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9)]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed XTAMPZA ER. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing XTAMPZA ER, and monitor all patients receiving XTAMPZA ER for the development of these behaviors or conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as XTAMPZA ER, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of XTAMPZA ER along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Abuse or misuse of XTAMPZA ER by snorting or by injecting the dissolved product can result in overdose and death [see Overdosage (10)]. Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing XTAMPZA ER. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on the proper disposal of unused drug [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.2 Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status [see Overdosage (10)]. Carbon dioxide (CO2) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of XTAMPZA ER, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. Closely monitor patients for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of XTAMPZA ER. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of XTAMPZA ER are essential [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Overestimating the XTAMPZA ER dose when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of XTAMPZA ER, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone. 5.3 Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of XTAMPZA ER during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for a prolonged period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.4 Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of XTAMPZA ER is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in XTAMPZA ER-treated patients may increase oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When using XTAMPZA ER with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in XTAMPZA ER-treated patients, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of XTAMPZA ER until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. When using XTAMPZA ER with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.5 Risks Due to Interactions with Central Nervous System Depressants Hypotension, profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result if XTAMPZA ER is used concomitantly with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines and other sedative-hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids). When considering the use of XTAMPZA ER in a patient taking a CNS depressant, assess the duration of use of the CNS depressant and the patient's response, including the degree of tolerance that has developed to CNS depression. Additionally, evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs that can cause CNS depression. If the decision to begin XTAMPZA ER therapy is made, start with 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dose XTAMPZA ER, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension, and consider using a lower dose of the concomitant CNS depressant. Use an alternative analgesic for patients who require a dose of XTAMPZA ER less than 9 mg [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.6 Risk of Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: XTAMPZA ER-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of XTAMPZA ER [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients as they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients. Monitor such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating XTAMPZA ER and when XTAMPZA ER is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Use an alternative analgesic for patients who require a dose of XTAMPZA ER less than 9 mg. 5.7 Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. 5.8 Severe Hypotension XTAMPZA ER may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is an increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of XTAMPZA ER. In patients with circulatory shock, XTAMPZA ER may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with circulatory shock. 5.9 Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), XTAMPZA ER may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with XTAMPZA ER. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. 5.10 Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions XTAMPZA ER is contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The oxycodone in XTAMPZA ER may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in the serum amylase. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. 5.11 Risk of Use in Patients with Seizure Disorders The oxycodone in XTAMPZA ER may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during XTAMPZA ER therapy. 5.12 Withdrawal Avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a full opioid agonist analgesic, including XTAMPZA ER. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. When discontinuing XTAMPZA ER, gradually taper the dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Do not abruptly discontinue XTAMPZA ER. 5.13 Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery XTAMPZA ER may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of XTAMPZA ER and know how they will react to the medication. 5.14 Laboratory Monitoring Not every urine drug test for \\\\"opioids\\\\" or \\\\"opiates\\\\" detects oxycodone reliably, especially those designed for in-office use. Further, many laboratories will report urine drug concentrations below a specified \\\\"cut-off\\\\" value as \\\\"negative\\\\". Therefore, if urine testing for oxycodone is considered in the clinical management of an individual patient, ensure that the sensitivity and specificity of the assay is appropriate, and consider the limitations of the testing used when interpreting results."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Interactions with CNS Depressants [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Adrenal Insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Severe Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Most common adverse reactions (>5%) were nausea, headache, constipation, somnolence, pruritus, vomiting, and dizziness. (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Collegium Pharmaceutical, Inc. at 1-855-331-5615 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of XTAMPZA ER was evaluated in a Phase 3, randomized-withdrawal, double-blind clinical trial involving 740 patients with moderate-to-severe chronic lower back pain. In the double-blind maintenance phase, 389 patients were randomized and 193 patients were assigned to the XTAMPZA ER treatment group. The most common AEs (>5%) reported by patients in the Phase 3 clinical trial during the titration phase were: nausea (16.6%), headache (13.9%), constipation (13.0%), somnolence (8.8%), pruritus (7.4%), vomiting (6.4%), and dizziness (5.7%). The most common adverse reactions (>5%) reported by patients in the Phase 3 clinical trial comparing XTAMPZA ER with placebo are shown in Table 1 below: Table 1: Common Adverse Reactions (>5%) Titration Maintenance Adverse Reaction XTAMPZA ER (n = 740) XTAMPZA ER (n = 193) Placebo (n = 196) (%) (%) (%) Nausea 16.6 10.9 4.6 Headache 13.9 6.2 11.7 Constipation 13.0 5.2 0.5 Somnolence 8.8 <1 <1 Pruritus 7.4 2.6 1.5 Vomiting 6.4 4.1 1.5 Dizziness 5.7 1.6 0 In the Phase 3 clinical trial, the following adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with XTAMPZA ER with incidences of 1% to 5%: Eye disorders: vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux disease General disorders and administration site conditions: chills, drug withdrawal syndrome, fatigue, irritability, edema, pyrexia Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: excoriation Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite, hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia Nervous system disorders: migraine, tremor Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, insomnia, withdrawal syndrome Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough, oropharyngeal pain Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: hyperhidrosis, rash Vascular disorders: hot flush, hypertension In the Phase 3 clinical trial, the following treatment-related adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with XTAMPZA ER with incidences of less than 1% of patients. Investigations: increased gamma-glutamyl transferase, increased heart rate Nervous system disorders: lethargy, memory impairment, poor-quality sleep Psychiatric disorders: abnormal dreams, euphoric mood, restlessness Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: night sweats 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of oxycodone. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serotonin syndrome: Cases of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs. Adrenal insufficiency: Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Anaphylaxis: Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in XTAMPZA ER. Androgen deficiency: Cases of androgen deficiency have occurred with chronic use of opioids [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically significant drug interactions with XTAMPZA ER. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with XTAMPZA ER Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of XTAMPZA ER is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of XTAMPZA ER until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the XTAMPZA ER dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the XTAMPZA ER dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider XTAMPZA ER dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacological effects, the concomitant use of CNS depressants can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Consider dose reduction of one or both drugs. Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Examples Alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue XTAMPZA ER if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of XTAMPZA ER and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: Butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of XTAMPZA ER and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when XTAMPZA ER is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Interactions with CNS depressants: Concomitant use may cause profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If coadministration is required, consider dose reduction of one or both drugs because of additive pharmacological effects and monitor closely. ( 5.5 , 7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue XTAMPZA ER if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7 ) Mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist opioid analgesics: Avoid use with XTAMPZA ER because they may reduce analgesic effect of XTAMPZA ER or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 )"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen capsules use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen capsule use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen capsules are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently observed adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, skin rash and pruritus. At higher doses, oxycodone has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving other narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen capsules may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with narcotics may produce paralytic ileus."$$
