"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of life-threatening respiratory depression in patients with chronic pulmonary disease or in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients: Monitor closely, particularly during initiation and titration. (5.6) Adrenal Insufficiency: If diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement of corticosteroids, and wean patient off of the opioid. ( 5.7 ) Severe hypotension: Monitor during dosage initiation and titration. Avoid use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with circulatory shock ( 5.8 ) Risks of use in patients with increased intracranial pressure, brain tumors, head injury, or impaired consciousness: Monitor for sedation and respiratory depression. Avoid use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. ( 5.9 ) 5.1 Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse XTAMPZA ER contains oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, XTAMPZA ER exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9)]. As extended-release products such as XTAMPZA ER deliver the opioid over an extended period of time, there is a greater risk for overdose and death due to the larger amount of oxycodone present [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9)]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed XTAMPZA ER. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing XTAMPZA ER, and monitor all patients receiving XTAMPZA ER for the development of these behaviors or conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as XTAMPZA ER, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of XTAMPZA ER along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Abuse or misuse of XTAMPZA ER by snorting or by injecting the dissolved product can result in overdose and death [see Overdosage (10)]. Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing XTAMPZA ER. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on the proper disposal of unused drug [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.2 Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status [see Overdosage (10)]. Carbon dioxide (CO2) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of XTAMPZA ER, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. Closely monitor patients for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of XTAMPZA ER. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of XTAMPZA ER are essential [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Overestimating the XTAMPZA ER dose when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of XTAMPZA ER, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone. 5.3 Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of XTAMPZA ER during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for a prolonged period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.4 Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of XTAMPZA ER is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in XTAMPZA ER-treated patients may increase oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When using XTAMPZA ER with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in XTAMPZA ER-treated patients, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of XTAMPZA ER until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. When using XTAMPZA ER with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.5 Risks Due to Interactions with Central Nervous System Depressants Hypotension, profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result if XTAMPZA ER is used concomitantly with other central nervous system (CNS) depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines and other sedative-hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids). When considering the use of XTAMPZA ER in a patient taking a CNS depressant, assess the duration of use of the CNS depressant and the patient's response, including the degree of tolerance that has developed to CNS depression. Additionally, evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs that can cause CNS depression. If the decision to begin XTAMPZA ER therapy is made, start with 1/3 to 1/2 the usual dose XTAMPZA ER, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension, and consider using a lower dose of the concomitant CNS depressant. Use an alternative analgesic for patients who require a dose of XTAMPZA ER less than 9 mg [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.6 Risk of Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: XTAMPZA ER-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of XTAMPZA ER [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients as they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients. Monitor such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating XTAMPZA ER and when XTAMPZA ER is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Use an alternative analgesic for patients who require a dose of XTAMPZA ER less than 9 mg. 5.7 Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. 5.8 Severe Hypotension XTAMPZA ER may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is an increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of XTAMPZA ER. In patients with circulatory shock, XTAMPZA ER may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with circulatory shock. 5.9 Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), XTAMPZA ER may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with XTAMPZA ER. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of XTAMPZA ER in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. 5.10 Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions XTAMPZA ER is contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The oxycodone in XTAMPZA ER may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in the serum amylase. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. 5.11 Risk of Use in Patients with Seizure Disorders The oxycodone in XTAMPZA ER may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during XTAMPZA ER therapy. 5.12 Withdrawal Avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a full opioid agonist analgesic, including XTAMPZA ER. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. When discontinuing XTAMPZA ER, gradually taper the dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Do not abruptly discontinue XTAMPZA ER. 5.13 Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery XTAMPZA ER may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of XTAMPZA ER and know how they will react to the medication. 5.14 Laboratory Monitoring Not every urine drug test for \\\\"opioids\\\\" or \\\\"opiates\\\\" detects oxycodone reliably, especially those designed for in-office use. Further, many laboratories will report urine drug concentrations below a specified \\\\"cut-off\\\\" value as \\\\"negative\\\\". Therefore, if urine testing for oxycodone is considered in the clinical management of an individual patient, ensure that the sensitivity and specificity of the assay is appropriate, and consider the limitations of the testing used when interpreting results."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between different concentrations and between mg and mL, which could result in accidental overdose and death. (5.1) -Increased risk or respiratory depression in elderly, debilitated patients, those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnea, or upper airway obstruction (5.2) -Oxycodone hydrochloride is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. (5.3) -Assess patients for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. (5.3) -Additive CNS depressive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs. (5.4) -Increased risk of respiratory depression and of elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions or preexisting increase in intracranial pressure. (5.5) -Risk of severe hypotension in patients with compromised ability to maintain blood pressure. (5.6) -May obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.7) -Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease and acute pancreatitis. (5.8) -The mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery may be impaired. (5.10) -Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase opioid effects. (5.11) 5.1 Risk of Medication Errors Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and other oxycodone solutions with different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Use caution to ensure the dose is communicated clearly and dispensed accurately. Always use the enclosed calibrated measuring cup when administering oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the primary risk of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution. Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in elderly or debilitated patients, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction, in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may significantly decrease pulmonary ventilation, or following large initial doses in non-tolerant patients, or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution with extreme caution in patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and in patients having substantially decreased respiratory reserve (e.g., severe kyphoscoliosis), hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may increase airway resistance and decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea. Consider alternative non-opioid analgesics, and use oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.3 Misuse and Abuse of Opioids Oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Patients should be assessed for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. Oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse or abuse. Oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may be abused by injecting the product. These practices pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2) and Overdosage (10)] . Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression because respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma or death may result [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 5.5 Use in Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure In the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure, the possible respiratory depressant effects of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution and its potential to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure (resulting from vasodilation following CO2 retention) may be markedly exaggerated. Furthermore, oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution can produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness, which may obscure neurologic signs of further increases in intracranial pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.6 Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may cause severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone. Oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution with caution in hypovolemic patients, such as those suffering acute myocardial infarction, because oxycodone may cause or further aggravate their hypotension. Administer oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilatation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.7 Gastrointestinal Effects Do not administer oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution to patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, especially paralytic ileus because oxycodone hydrochloride diminishes propulsive peristaltic waves in the gastrointestinal tract and may prolong the obstruction. The administration of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal condition. 5.8 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease Use oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as oxycodone hydrochloride may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.9 Special Risk Groups Use oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution with caution and in reduced dosages in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment, Addison's disease, hypothyroidism, prostatic hypertrophy, or urethral stricture, and in elderly or debilitated patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)] . Exercise caution in the administration of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution to patients with CNS depression, toxic psychosis, acute alcoholism and delirium tremens. All opioids may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Keep oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek emergency medical help immediately. 5.10 Driving and Operating Machinery Caution patients that oxycodone hydrochloride could impair the mental and/or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Caution patients about the potential combined effects of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution with other CNS depressants, including other opioids, phenothiazines, sedative/hypnotics and alcohol [see Drug Interactions (7)] . 5.11 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone, drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity may cause changes in clearance of oxycodone which could lead to changes in oxycodone plasma concentrations. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inhibitors would be an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and possibly increased or prolonged opioid effects. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inducers would be a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution treatment in patients currently taking, or discontinuing, CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 5.12 Seizures Oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between different concentrations and between mg and mL, which could result in accidental overdose and death. (5.1) -Increased risk or respiratory depression in elderly, debilitated patients, those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnea, or upper airway obstruction. (5.2) -Oxycodone hydrochloride is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. (5.3) -Assess patients for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. (5.3) -Additive CNS depressive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs. (5.4) -Increased risk of respiratory depression and of elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions or pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. (5.5) -Risk of severe hypotension in patients with compromised ability to maintain blood pressure. (5.6) -May obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.7) -Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease and acute pancreatitis. (5.8) -The mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery may be impaired. (5.10) -Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase opioid effects. (5.11) 5.1 Risk of Medication Errors Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and other oxycodone solutions with different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Use caution to ensure the dose is communicated clearly and dispensed accurately. Always use the enclosed calibrated measuring cup when administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the primary risk of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in elderly or debilitated patients, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction, in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may significantly decrease pulmonary ventilation, or following large initial doses in non-tolerant patients, or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with extreme caution in patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and in patients having substantially decreased respiratory reserve (e.g., severe kyphoscoliosis), hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may increase airway resistance and decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea. Consider alternative non-opioid analgesics, and use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.3 Misuse and Abuse of Opioids Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Patients should be assessed for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse or abuse. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may be abused by injecting the product. These practices pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2) and Overdosage (10)]. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression because respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma or death may result [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.5 Use in Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure In the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure, the possible respiratory depressant effects of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and its potential to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure (resulting from vasodilation following CO2 retention) may be markedly exaggerated. Furthermore, Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution can produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness, which may obscure neurologic signs of further increases in intracranial pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.6 Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may cause severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution in hypovolemic patients, such as those suffering acute myocardial infarction, because oxycodone may cause or further aggravate their hypotension. Administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilatation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.7 Gastrointestinal Effects Do not administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, especially paralytic ileus because oxycodone hydrochloride diminishes propulsive peristaltic waves in the gastrointestinal tract and may prolong the obstruction. The administration of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal condition. 5.8 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as oxycodone hydrochloride may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.9 Special Risk Groups Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution and in reduced dosages in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment, Addison's disease, hypothyroidism, prostatic hypertrophy, or urethral stricture, and in elderly or debilitated patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Exercise caution in the administration of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to patients with CNS depression, toxic psychosis, acute alcoholism and delirium tremens. All opioids may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Keep Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek emergency medical help immediately. 5.10 Driving and Operating Machinery Caution patients that oxycodone hydrochloride could impair the mental and/or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Caution patients about the potential combined effects of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with other CNS depressants, including other opioids, phenothiazines, sedative/hypnotics and alcohol [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.11 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone, drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity may cause changes in clearance of oxycodone which could lead to changes in oxycodone plasma concentrations. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inhibitors would be an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and possibly increased or prolonged opioid effects. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inducers would be a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution treatment in patients currently taking, or discontinuing, CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.12 Seizures Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between different concentrations and between mg and mL, which could result in accidental overdose and death. (5.1) Increased risk or respiratory depression in elderly, debilitated patients, those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnea, or upper airway obstruction. (5.2) Oxycodone hydrochloride is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. (5.3) Assess patients for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. (5.3) Additive CNS depressive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs. (5.4) Increased risk of respiratory depression and of elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions or pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. (5.5) Risk of severe hypotension in patients with compromised ability to maintain blood pressure. (5.6) May obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.7) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease and acute pancreatitis. (5.8) The mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery may be impaired. (5.10) Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase opioid effects. (5.11) 5.1 Risk of Medication Errors Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and other oxycodone solutions with different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Use caution to ensure the dose is communicated clearly and dispensed accurately. Always use the enclosed calibrated measuring cup when administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the primary risk of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in elderly or debilitated patients, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction, in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may significantly decrease pulmonary ventilation, or following large initial doses in non-tolerant patients, or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with extreme caution in patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and in patients having substantially decreased respiratory reserve (e.g., severe kyphoscoliosis), hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may increase airway resistance and decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea. Consider alternative non-opioid analgesics, and use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.3 Misuse and Abuse of Opioids Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Patients should be assessed for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse or abuse. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may be abused by injecting the product. These practices pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2) and Overdosage (10)]. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression because respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma or death may result [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.5 Use in Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure In the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure, the possible respiratory depressant effects of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and its potential to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure (resulting from vasodilation following CO2 retention) may be markedly exaggerated. Furthermore, Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution can produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness, which may obscure neurologic signs of further increases in intracranial pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.6 Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may cause severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution in hypovolemic patients, such as those suffering acute myocardial infarction, because oxycodone may cause or further aggravate their hypotension. Administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilatation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.7 Gastrointestinal Effects Do not administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, especially paralytic ileus because oxycodone hydrochloride diminishes propulsive peristaltic waves in the gastrointestinal tract and may prolong the obstruction. The administration of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal condition. 5.8 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as oxycodone hydrochloride may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.9 Special Risk Groups Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution and in reduced dosages in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment, Addison's disease, hypothyroidism, prostatic hypertrophy, or urethral stricture, and in elderly or debilitated patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)] . Exercise caution in the administration of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to patients with CNS depression, toxic psychosis, acute alcoholism and delirium tremens. All opioids may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Keep Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek emergency medical help immediately. 5.10 Driving and Operating Machinery Caution patients that oxycodone hydrochloride could impair the mental and/or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Caution patients about the potential combined effects of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with other CNS depressants, including other opioids, phenothiazines, sedative/hypnotics and alcohol [see Drug Interactions (7.)]. 5.11 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone, drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity may cause changes in clearance of oxycodone which could lead to changes in oxycodone plasma concentrations. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inhibitors would be an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and possibly increased or prolonged opioid effects. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inducers would be a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution treatment in patients currently taking, or discontinuing, CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.12 Seizures Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, USP to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between different concentrations and between mg and mL, which could result in accidental overdose and death. (5.1) Increased risk or respiratory depression in elderly, debilitated patients, those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnea, or upper airway obstruction. (5.2) Oxycodone hydrochloride is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. (5.3) Assess patients for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. (5.3) Additive CNS depressive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs. (5.4) Increased risk of respiratory depression and of elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions or pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. (5.5) Risk of severe hypotension in patients with compromised ability to maintain blood pressure. (5.6) May obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. (5.7) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease and acute pancreatitis. (5.8) The mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery may be impaired. (5.10) Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase opioid effects. (5.11) 5.1 Risk of Medication Errors Use caution when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and other oxycodone solutions with different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Use caution to ensure the dose is communicated clearly and dispensed accurately. Always use the enclosed calibrated measuring cup when administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. 5.2 Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the primary risk of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in elderly or debilitated patients, and in those suffering from conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or upper airway obstruction, in whom even moderate therapeutic doses may significantly decrease pulmonary ventilation, or following large initial doses in non-tolerant patients, or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with extreme caution in patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and in patients having substantially decreased respiratory reserve (e.g., severe kyphoscoliosis), hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may increase airway resistance and decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea. Consider alternative non-opioid analgesics, and use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose in such patients. 5.3 Misuse and Abuse of Opioids Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders. Diversion of Schedule II products is an act subject to criminal penalty. Patients should be assessed for their clinical risks for opioid abuse or addiction prior to being prescribed opioids. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse or abuse. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may be abused by injecting the product. These practices pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose and death [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.2) and Overdosage (10) ]. Concerns about abuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. 5.4 Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol, other opioids, or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression because respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma or death may result [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 5.5 Use in Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure In the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure, the possible respiratory depressant effects of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and its potential to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure (resulting from vasodilation following CO2 retention) may be markedly exaggerated. Furthermore, Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution can produce effects on pupillary response and consciousness, which may obscure neurologic signs of further increases in intracranial pressure in patients with head injuries. 5.6 Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may cause severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution in hypovolemic patients, such as those suffering acute myocardial infarction, because oxycodone may cause or further aggravate their hypotension. Administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilatation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. 5.7 Gastrointestinal Effects Do not administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, especially paralytic ileus because oxycodone hydrochloride diminishes propulsive peristaltic waves in the gastrointestinal tract and may prolong the obstruction. The administration of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal condition. 5.8 Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, as oxycodone hydrochloride may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and diminish biliary and pancreatic secretions. 5.9 Special Risk Groups Use Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with caution and in reduced dosages in patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment, Addison's disease, hypothyroidism, prostatic hypertrophy, or urethral stricture, and in elderly or debilitated patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . Exercise caution in the administration of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to patients with CNS depression, toxic psychosis, acute alcoholism and delirium tremens. All opioids may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Keep Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution out of the reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek emergency medical help immediately. 5.10 Driving and Operating Machinery Caution patients that oxycodone hydrochloride could impair the mental and/or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Caution patients about the potential combined effects of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution with other CNS depressants, including other opioids, phenothiazines, sedative/hypnotics and alcohol [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.11 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone, drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity may cause changes in clearance of oxycodone which could lead to changes in oxycodone plasma concentrations. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inhibitors would be an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and possibly increased or prolonged opioid effects. The expected clinical results with CYP3A4 inducers would be a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution treatment in patients currently taking, or discontinuing, CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 5.12 Seizures Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS XARTEMIS XR is not interchangeable with other oxycodone/acetaminophen products because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles that affect the frequency of administration. XARTEMIS XR is not interchangeable with other oxycodone/ acetaminophen products because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles that affect the frequency of administration. (5) Controlled substance: XARTEMIS XR is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. (5.1) Accidental exposure, especially in children, can result in fatal overdose of oxycodone. (5.2) Interactions with CNS depressants: Concomitant use may cause profound sedation, respiratory depression, and death. If coadministration is required, consider dose reduction of one or both drugs. (5.4) Use with caution in patients who are receiving other CNS depressants. (5.4, 7.1) Elderly, cachectic, debilitated patients, and those with chronic pulmonary disease: Monitor closely because of increased risk for life-threatening respiratory depression. (5.5, 5.6) Use caution when administering in patients with hepatic impairment. (5.7) May cause serious skin reactions. Discontinue use if reaction occurs. (5.8) May worsen increased intracranial pressure and obscure its signs, such as level of consciousness or pupillary signs. (5.9) May cause hypotension. Use with caution in patients at increased risk of hypotension and in patients in circulatory shock. (5.10) Due to the potential for acetaminophen hepatotoxicity at doses higher than 4000 mg/day, XARTEMIS XR should not be used with other acetaminophen-containing products. (5.11) Discontinue XARTEMIS XR immediately if symptoms associated with allergy or hypersensitivity occur. Do not use in patients with acetaminophen allergy. (5.12) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis. (5.14) Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase opioid effects. (5.15) May impair the mental and physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. (5.16) 5.1 Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse XARTEMIS XR contains oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, XARTEMIS XR exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9)]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed XARTEMIS XR and in those who obtain the drug illicitly. Addiction can occur at recommended doses and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing XARTEMIS XR, and monitor all patients receiving XARTEMIS XR for the development of these behaviors or conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol addiction or abuse) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the prescribing of XARTEMIS XR for the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed modified-release opioid formulations such as XARTEMIS XR, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of XARTEMIS XR along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Abuse or misuse of XARTEMIS XR by crushing, chewing, snorting, or injecting the dissolved product will result in the uncontrolled delivery of the oxycodone and can result in overdose and death [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.2 Life-threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression from opioid use, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status [see Overdosage (10)]. Carbon dioxide (CO2) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of XARTEMIS XR, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dose increase. Closely monitor patients for respiratory depression when initiating therapy with XARTEMIS XR and following dose increases. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of XARTEMIS XR are essential [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Overestimating the XARTEMIS XR dose when converting patients from another opioid product can result in fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental consumption of XARTEMIS XR, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone. 5.3 Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of XARTEMIS XR during pregnancy can result in withdrawal signs in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability, hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern, high pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea and failure to gain weight. The onset, duration, and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn. 5.4 Interactions with Central Nervous System Depressants Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, and death may result if XARTEMIS XR is used concomitantly with alcohol or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants (e.g., sedatives, anxiolytics, hypnotics, neuroleptics, other opioids). When considering the use of XARTEMIS XR in a patient taking a CNS depressant, assess the duration use of the CNS depressant and the patient's response, including the degree of tolerance that has developed to CNS depression. Additionally, evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs that cause CNS depression. If the decision to begin XARTEMIS XR is made, start with XARTEMIS XR 1 tablet every 12 hours, monitor patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, and consider using a lower dose of the concomitant CNS depressant [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.5 Elderly, Cachectic, and Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients as they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients. Monitor such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating XARTEMIS XR and when XARTEMIS XR is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 5.6 Use in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Monitor patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or preexisting respiratory depression for respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy and titrating with XARTEMIS XR, as in these patients, even usual therapeutic doses of XARTEMIS XR may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Consider the use of alternative non-opioid analgesics in these patients if possible. 5.7 Hepatotoxicity XARTEMIS XR contains oxycodone and acetaminophen. Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The typical daily acetaminophen contribution from XARTEMIS XR is 1300 mg. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. 5.8 Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Inform patients about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. 5.10 Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone may cause severe hypotension particularly in individuals whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs which compromise vasomotor tone such as phenothiazines. Administer XARTEMIS XR with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. XARTEMIS XR may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.11 Use With Other Acetaminophen-containing Products The typical daily acetaminophen-contribution from XARTEMIS XR is 1300 mg. Due to the potential for acetaminophen hepatotoxicity at doses higher than 4000 milligrams/day, XARTEMIS XR should not be used concomitantly with other acetaminophen-containing products. 5.12 Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue XARTEMIS XR immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe XARTEMIS XR for patients with acetaminophen allergy. 5.13 Difficulty Swallowing Due to characteristics of the formulation that cause the tablets to swell and become sticky when wet, consider use of an alternative analgesic in patients who have difficulty swallowing and patients at risk for underlying GI disorders resulting in a small gastrointestinal lumen. Instruct patients not to pre-soak, lick or otherwise wet XARTEMIS XR tablets prior to placing in the mouth, and to take one tablet at a time with enough water to ensure complete swallowing immediately after placing in mouth. 5.14 Gastrointestinal Effects XARTEMIS XR is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected paralytic ileus. Opioids diminish propulsive peristaltic waves in the gastrointestinal tract and decrease bowel motility. Monitor for decreased bowel motility in post-operative patients receiving opioids. The administration of XARTEMIS XR may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. Oxycodone may cause spasm of the Sphincter of Oddi. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis. 5.15 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of XARTEMIS XR, drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity may cause changes in clearance of oxycodone which could lead to changes in oxycodone plasma concentrations. Inhibition of CYP3A4 activity by its inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone and prolong opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of CYP 2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors. Cytochrome P450 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, resulting in a potential lack of efficacy. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating XARTEMIS XR treatment in patients currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. 5.16 Driving and Operating Machinery XARTEMIS XR may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. The patient using this drug should be cautioned accordingly."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS XARTEMIS XR is not interchangeable with other oxycodone/acetaminophen products because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles that affect the frequency of administration. XARTEMIS XR is not interchangeable with other oxycodone/ acetaminophen products because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles that affect the frequency of administration. (5) Controlled substance: XARTEMIS XR is a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to other opioids. (5.1) Accidental exposure, especially in children, can result in fatal overdose of oxycodone. (5.2) Interactions with CNS depressants: Concomitant use may cause profound sedation, respiratory depression, and death. If coadministration is required, consider dose reduction of one or both drugs. (5.4) Use with caution in patients who are receiving other CNS depressants. (5.4, 7.1) Elderly, cachectic, debilitated patients, and those with chronic pulmonary disease: Monitor closely because of increased risk for life-threatening respiratory depression. (5.5, 5.6) Use caution when administering in patients with hepatic impairment. (5.7) May cause serious skin reactions. Discontinue use if reaction occurs. (5.8) May worsen increased intracranial pressure and obscure its signs, such as level of consciousness or pupillary signs. (5.9) May cause hypotension. Use with caution in patients at increased risk of hypotension and in patients in circulatory shock. (5.10) Due to the potential for acetaminophen hepatotoxicity at doses higher than 4000 mg/day, XARTEMIS XR should not be used with other acetaminophen-containing products. (5.11) Discontinue XARTEMIS XR immediately if symptoms associated with allergy or hypersensitivity occur. Do not use in patients with acetaminophen allergy. (5.12) Use with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis. (5.14) Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase opioid effects. (5.15) May impair the mental and physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. (5.16) 5.1 Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse XARTEMIS XR contains oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, XARTEMIS XR exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9)]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed XARTEMIS XR and in those who obtain the drug illicitly. Addiction can occur at recommended doses and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing XARTEMIS XR, and monitor all patients receiving XARTEMIS XR for the development of these behaviors or conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol addiction or abuse) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the prescribing of XARTEMIS XR for the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed modified-release opioid formulations such as XARTEMIS XR, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of XARTEMIS XR along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Abuse or misuse of XARTEMIS XR by crushing, chewing, snorting, or injecting the dissolved product will result in the uncontrolled delivery of the oxycodone and can result in overdose and death [see Overdosage (10)]. 5.2 Life-threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression from opioid use, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status [see Overdosage (10)]. Carbon dioxide (CO2) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of XARTEMIS XR, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dose increase. Closely monitor patients for respiratory depression when initiating therapy with XARTEMIS XR and following dose increases. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of XARTEMIS XR are essential [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Overestimating the XARTEMIS XR dose when converting patients from another opioid product can result in fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental consumption of XARTEMIS XR, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone. 5.3 Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of XARTEMIS XR during pregnancy can result in withdrawal signs in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability, hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern, high pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea and failure to gain weight. The onset, duration, and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn. 5.4 Interactions with Central Nervous System Depressants Hypotension, profound sedation, coma, respiratory depression, and death may result if XARTEMIS XR is used concomitantly with alcohol or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants (e.g., sedatives, anxiolytics, hypnotics, neuroleptics, other opioids). When considering the use of XARTEMIS XR in a patient taking a CNS depressant, assess the duration use of the CNS depressant and the patient's response, including the degree of tolerance that has developed to CNS depression. Additionally, evaluate the patient's use of alcohol or illicit drugs that cause CNS depression. If the decision to begin XARTEMIS XR is made, start with XARTEMIS XR 1 tablet every 12 hours, monitor patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, and consider using a lower dose of the concomitant CNS depressant [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.5 Elderly, Cachectic, and Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients as they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients. Monitor such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating XARTEMIS XR and when XARTEMIS XR is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 5.6 Use in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Monitor patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or preexisting respiratory depression for respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy and titrating with XARTEMIS XR, as in these patients, even usual therapeutic doses of XARTEMIS XR may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Consider the use of alternative non-opioid analgesics in these patients if possible. 5.7 Hepatotoxicity XARTEMIS XR contains oxycodone and acetaminophen. Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The typical daily acetaminophen contribution from XARTEMIS XR is 1300 mg. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. 5.8 Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Inform patients about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. 5.10 Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone may cause severe hypotension particularly in individuals whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs which compromise vasomotor tone such as phenothiazines. Administer XARTEMIS XR with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. XARTEMIS XR may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.11 Use With Other Acetaminophen-containing Products The typical daily acetaminophen-contribution from XARTEMIS XR is 1300 mg. Due to the potential for acetaminophen hepatotoxicity at doses higher than 4000 milligrams/day, XARTEMIS XR should not be used concomitantly with other acetaminophen-containing products. 5.12 Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue XARTEMIS XR immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe XARTEMIS XR for patients with acetaminophen allergy. 5.13 Difficulty Swallowing Due to characteristics of the formulation that cause the tablets to swell and become sticky when wet, consider use of an alternative analgesic in patients who have difficulty swallowing and patients at risk for underlying GI disorders resulting in a small gastrointestinal lumen. Instruct patients not to pre-soak, lick or otherwise wet XARTEMIS XR tablets prior to placing in the mouth, and to take one tablet at a time with enough water to ensure complete swallowing immediately after placing in mouth. 5.14 Gastrointestinal Effects XARTEMIS XR is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected paralytic ileus. Opioids diminish propulsive peristaltic waves in the gastrointestinal tract and decrease bowel motility. Monitor for decreased bowel motility in post-operative patients receiving opioids. The administration of XARTEMIS XR may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. Oxycodone may cause spasm of the Sphincter of Oddi. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis. 5.15 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Since the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of XARTEMIS XR, drugs that alter CYP3A4 activity may cause changes in clearance of oxycodone which could lead to changes in oxycodone plasma concentrations. Inhibition of CYP3A4 activity by its inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone and prolong opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of CYP 2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors. Cytochrome P450 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, resulting in a potential lack of efficacy. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating XARTEMIS XR treatment in patients currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. 5.16 Driving and Operating Machinery XARTEMIS XR may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery. The patient using this drug should be cautioned accordingly."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling: Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Interactions with CNS Depressants [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Adrenal Insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Severe Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Most common adverse reactions (>5%) were nausea, headache, constipation, somnolence, pruritus, vomiting, and dizziness. (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Collegium Pharmaceutical, Inc. at 1-855-331-5615 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of XTAMPZA ER was evaluated in a Phase 3, randomized-withdrawal, double-blind clinical trial involving 740 patients with moderate-to-severe chronic lower back pain. In the double-blind maintenance phase, 389 patients were randomized and 193 patients were assigned to the XTAMPZA ER treatment group. The most common AEs (>5%) reported by patients in the Phase 3 clinical trial during the titration phase were: nausea (16.6%), headache (13.9%), constipation (13.0%), somnolence (8.8%), pruritus (7.4%), vomiting (6.4%), and dizziness (5.7%). The most common adverse reactions (>5%) reported by patients in the Phase 3 clinical trial comparing XTAMPZA ER with placebo are shown in Table 1 below: Table 1: Common Adverse Reactions (>5%) Titration Maintenance Adverse Reaction XTAMPZA ER (n = 740) XTAMPZA ER (n = 193) Placebo (n = 196) (%) (%) (%) Nausea 16.6 10.9 4.6 Headache 13.9 6.2 11.7 Constipation 13.0 5.2 0.5 Somnolence 8.8 <1 <1 Pruritus 7.4 2.6 1.5 Vomiting 6.4 4.1 1.5 Dizziness 5.7 1.6 0 In the Phase 3 clinical trial, the following adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with XTAMPZA ER with incidences of 1% to 5%: Eye disorders: vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux disease General disorders and administration site conditions: chills, drug withdrawal syndrome, fatigue, irritability, edema, pyrexia Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: excoriation Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite, hyperglycemia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, back pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia Nervous system disorders: migraine, tremor Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, insomnia, withdrawal syndrome Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough, oropharyngeal pain Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: hyperhidrosis, rash Vascular disorders: hot flush, hypertension In the Phase 3 clinical trial, the following treatment-related adverse reactions were reported in patients treated with XTAMPZA ER with incidences of less than 1% of patients. Investigations: increased gamma-glutamyl transferase, increased heart rate Nervous system disorders: lethargy, memory impairment, poor-quality sleep Psychiatric disorders: abnormal dreams, euphoric mood, restlessness Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: night sweats 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of oxycodone. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Serotonin syndrome: Cases of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs. Adrenal insufficiency: Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Anaphylaxis: Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in XTAMPZA ER. Androgen deficiency: Cases of androgen deficiency have occurred with chronic use of opioids [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections: -Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] -Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and increases in the serum amylase level [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock [see Overdose (10.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)]. The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving immediate-release oxycodone, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection -The most common adverse reactions are nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact ANI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-308-6755 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections: Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and increases in the serum amylase level [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock [see Overdose (10.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3) ]. The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving immediate-release oxycodone, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection The most common adverse reactions are nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS CONTACT FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections: -Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] -Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and increases in the serum amylase level [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock [see Overdose (10.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] . The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving immediate-release oxycodone, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection - The most common adverse reactions are nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Roxane Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-962-8364 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections: -Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] -Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and increases in the serum amylase level [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock [see Overdose (10.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] . The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving immediate-release oxycodone, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection -The most common adverse reactions are nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Roxane Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-962-8364 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following treatment-emergent adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Respiratory Depression [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2), and Overdosage (10)] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Use With Other Acetaminophen-containing Products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Interactions with Other CNS Depressants [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The most common adverse events with XARTEMIS XR are nausea, dizziness, headache, vomiting, constipation and somnolence. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mallinckrodt at 1-800-778-7898 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In safety data from two Phase 3 (one placebo-controlled, one open-label) trials where multiple doses of XARTEMIS XR were administered for up to 42 days, the most common adverse reactions (reported by >=10% in any XARTEMIS XR dose group) were: nausea, dizziness and vomiting. The most common reasons for discontinuation due to AEs in these 2 studies (reported by >=1% in any XARTEMIS XR dose group) were vomiting (4.8%) and nausea (4.1%); there were no reports of these adverse reactions in the placebo-treated patients. A total of 1028 subjects in 14 clinical studies were treated with XARTEMIS XR during the clinical development program, including 892 subjects treated with 15 mg oxycodone and 650 mg acetaminophen. This dosage regimen of XARTEMIS XR was administered to 607 patients in two Phase 3 studies (one placebo-controlled and one open-label). In a placebo-controlled post-bunionectomy acute pain trial, 329 patients were dosed with 15 mg oxycodone and 650 mg acetaminophen XARTEMIS XR or placebo orally every 12 hours, for approximately 48 hours (blinded period) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported by >=1% of XARTEMIS XR-treated patients and more frequently in XARTEMIS XR-treated patients compared with placebo. Table 1. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions* Reported by >=1% of XARTEMIS XR-Treated Patients and More Frequently than Placebo in XARTEMIS XR-Treated Patients with Postoperative Bunionectomy Pain (blinded period) Preferred Term XARTEMIS XR (N = 166) % Placebo (N = 163) % Nausea 31 6 Dizziness 13 1 Headache 10 5 Vomiting 9 0 Constipation 4 3 Somnolence 4 <1 Rash 2 1 Blister 1 <1 Dysuria 1 0 Edema peripheral 1 0 Erythema 1 0 Excoriation 1 0 Hot flush 1 <1 Pruritus generalized 1 0 *A treatment-emergent adverse reaction refers to any untoward medical event associated with the use of the drug in humans, whether or not considered drug-related. 6.2 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Premarketing Evaluation of XARTEMIS XR The following adverse drug reactions not listed above occurred in >=1% of XARTEMIS XR-treated patients in the pooled safety data from two Phase 3 studies (including a placebo-controlled and an open-label non-controlled safety study) where multiple-doses of XARTEMIS XR were administered every 12 hours for up to 42 days: Gastrointestinal disorders: dry mouth, dyspepsia, diarrhea General disorders and administration site conditions: fatigue Investigations: hepatic enzyme increased Psychiatric disorders: insomnia Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough The following adverse drug reactions occurred in <1% of XARTEMIS XR-treated patients in the pooled safety data from the two Phase 3 studies described above: Cardiac disorders: palpitations Eye and ea r disorders: tinnitus, vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, esophageal spasm General disorders and administration site conditions: asthenia, chest discomfort, chills, contusion, fall, feeling jittery, malaise, non-cardiac chest pain, thirst Immune s ystem d isorders : hypersensitivity Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood pressure increased, gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, liver functional test abnormal Metabolic and nutritional : decreased appetite Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, musculoskeletal stiffness Nervous system disorders: cognitive disorder, memory impairment, migraine, myoclonus, paraesthesia, sedation, tremor Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, confusional state, disorientation, euphoric mood, mood altered, sleep disorder, withdrawal syndrome Renal and urinary disorders: urine flow decreased Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: dyspnea, hiccups, hypopnea, oropharyngeal pain, throat irritation Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: dermatitis, ecchymosis, hyperhidrosis, urticaria Vascular disorders: flushing, hypertension"$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions are nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS CONTACT FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The following serious adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections: Respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and increases in the serum amylase level [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock [see Overdose (10.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.3)]. The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving immediate-release oxycodone, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Skeletal muscle relaxants: Enhanced action of and increased degree of respiratory depression (7.2) -Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may decrease clearance of oxycodone and lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations. (7.4) 7.1 CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.3 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.4 Agents Affecting Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP3A4 Inhibitors: A published study showed that the co-administration with voriconazole, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the plasma concentrations of oxycodone. Inhibition of CYP3A4 activity by its inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may prolong opioid effects. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . CYP3A4 Inducers: A published study showed that the co-administration of rifampin, a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer, significantly decreased plasma oxycodone concentrations. Induction of CYP3A4 activity by its inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may lead to a lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . CYP2D6 Inhibitors: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the Cytochrome P450 Isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug, causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride oral solution is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. 7.6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity, when used concurrently with opioid analgesics including oxycodone hydrochloride, may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent use of other CNS depressants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma. (7.1) XARTEMIS XR may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. (7.2) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors may intensify the effects of opioids causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. (7.3) The CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of XARTEMIS XR; drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations. (7.4) Mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone and may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. (7.5) Anticholinergics may increase risk for urinary retention and severe constipation. (7.6) 7.1 CNS Depressants The concomitant use of XARTEMIS XR with other CNS depressants including sedatives, hypnotics, tranquilizers, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other opioids, and alcohol can increase the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma and death. Monitor patients receiving CNS depressants and XARTEMIS XR for signs of respiratory depression, sedation and hypotension. When combined therapy with any of the above medications is considered, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion, and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of XARTEMIS XR is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. 7.4 Agents Affecting Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP3A4 Inhibitors Because the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and result in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of CYP2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors. If co-administration with XARTEMIS XR is necessary, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. CYP3A4 Inducers CYP450 3A4 inducers may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration with XARTEMIS XR is necessary, monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the Cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs, including amiodarone and quinidine, and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with an opioid agonist analgesic such as XARTEMIS XR. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of XARTEMIS XR and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent use of other CNS depressants may cause respiratory depression, hypotension, and profound sedation or coma. (7.1) XARTEMIS XR may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. (7.2) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors may intensify the effects of opioids causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. (7.3) The CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of XARTEMIS XR; drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations. (7.4) Mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone and may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. (7.5) Anticholinergics may increase risk for urinary retention and severe constipation. (7.6) 7.1 CNS Depressants The concomitant use of XARTEMIS XR with other CNS depressants including sedatives, hypnotics, tranquilizers, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other opioids, and alcohol can increase the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma and death. Monitor patients receiving CNS depressants and XARTEMIS XR for signs of respiratory depression, sedation and hypotension. When combined therapy with any of the above medications is considered, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion, and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of XARTEMIS XR is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. 7.4 Agents Affecting Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP3A4 Inhibitors Because the CYP3A4 isoenzyme plays a major role in the metabolism of oxycodone, drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and result in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of CYP2D6 and 3A4 inhibitors. If co-administration with XARTEMIS XR is necessary, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. CYP3A4 Inducers CYP450 3A4 inducers may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration with XARTEMIS XR is necessary, monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the Cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs, including amiodarone and quinidine, and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol, and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with an opioid agonist analgesic such as XARTEMIS XR. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of XARTEMIS XR and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Skeletal muscle relaxants: Enhance action of and increased degree of respiratory depression (7.2) Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may decrease clearance of oxycodone and lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations. (7.4) 7.1 CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.3 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.4 Agents Affecting Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP3A4 Inhibitors A published study showed that the co-administration with voriconazole, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the plasma concentrations of oxycodone. Inhibition of CYP3A4 activity by its inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may prolong opioid effects. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A4 Inducers A published study showed that the co-administration of rifampin, a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer, significantly decreased plasma oxycodone concentrations. Induction of CYP3A4 activity by its inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may lead to a lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the Cytochrome P450 Isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug, causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. 7.6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity, when used concurrently with opioid analgesics including oxycodone hydrochloride, may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Skeletal muscle relaxants: Enhance action of and increased degree of respiratory depression (7.2) Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may decrease clearance of oxycodone and lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations. (7.4) 7.1 CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.3 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.4 Agents Affecting Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP3A4 Inhibitors A published study showed that the co-administration with voriconazole, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the plasma concentrations of oxycodone. Inhibition of CYP3A4 activity by its inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may prolong opioid effects. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. CYP3A4 Inducers A published study showed that the co-administration of rifampin, a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer, significantly decreased plasma oxycodone concentrations. Induction of CYP3A4 activity by its inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may lead to a lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the Cytochrome P450 Isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug, causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. 7.6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity, when used concurrently with opioid analgesics including oxycodone hydrochloride, may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Skeletal muscle relaxants: Enhanced action of and increased degree of respiratory depression (7.2) -Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity may decrease clearance of oxycodone and lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations. (7.4) 7.1 CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. 7.3 Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. 7.4 Agents Affecting Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP3A4 Inhibitors A published study showed that the co-administration with voriconazole, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the plasma concentrations of oxycodone. Inhibition of CYP3A4 activity by its inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may prolong opioid effects. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. CYP3A4 Inducers A published study showed that the co-administration of rifampin, a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer, significantly decreased plasma oxycodone concentrations. Induction of CYP3A4 activity by its inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may lead to a lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the Cytochrome P450 Isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug, causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. 7.6 Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity, when used concurrently with opioid analgesics including oxycodone hydrochloride, may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically significant drug interactions with XTAMPZA ER. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with XTAMPZA ER Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of XTAMPZA ER is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of XTAMPZA ER until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the XTAMPZA ER dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of XTAMPZA ER and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the XTAMPZA ER dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider XTAMPZA ER dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacological effects, the concomitant use of CNS depressants can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Consider dose reduction of one or both drugs. Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Examples Alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue XTAMPZA ER if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of XTAMPZA ER and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: Butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of XTAMPZA ER and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when XTAMPZA ER is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Interactions with CNS depressants: Concomitant use may cause profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If coadministration is required, consider dose reduction of one or both drugs because of additive pharmacological effects and monitor closely. ( 5.5 , 7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue XTAMPZA ER if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7 ) Mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist opioid analgesics: Avoid use with XTAMPZA ER because they may reduce analgesic effect of XTAMPZA ER or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 )"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole - abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular - deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive - anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic - anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional - edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal - arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous - agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory - bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages - herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses - amblyopia. Urogenital - urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE and WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n = 191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >=3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE and WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole - abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular - deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive - anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic - anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional - edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal - arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous - agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory - bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages - herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses - amblyopia. Urogenital - urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see ). , OVERDOSAGE WARNINGS The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Body as a Whole: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Cardiovascular: : anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Digestive anemia and leukopenia. Hemic and Lymphatic: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Metabolic and Nutritional: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Musculoskeletal: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Nervous: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Respiratory: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Skin and Appendages: amblyopia. Special Senses: urinary tract infection. Urogenital:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE , WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE, WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see overdosage, WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance: Oxycodone Hydrochloride Tablets contain Oxycodone, a mu-agonist opioid if the morphine type and is a Schedule II controlled substance. Oxycodone hydrochloride, like other opioids used in analgesia, can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion. Abuse: Drug addiction is characterized by compulsive use, use for non-medical purposes, and continued use despite harm or risk of harm. Drug addiction is a treatable disease, utilizing a multi-disciplinary approach, but relapse is common. "Drug-seeking" behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers. Drug-seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours, refusal to undergo appropriate examination, testing or referral, repeated "loss" of prescriptions, tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician(s). "Doctor shopping" to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction. Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance. Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence. In addition, abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for nonmedical purposes, often in combination with other psychoactive substances. Careful record-keeping of prescribing information, including quantity, frequency, and renewal requests is strongly advised. Oxycodone hydrochloride is intended for oral use only. Abuse of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets poses a risk of overdose and death. The risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol and other substances. Parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV. Proper assessment of the patient, proper prescribing practices, periodic re-evaluation of therapy, and proper dispening and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs. Infants born to mothers physically dependent on opioids will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms. Dependence: Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia (in the absence of disease progression or other external factors). Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist. Physical dependence and tolerance are not unusual during chronic opioid therapy. The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following: restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. In general, opioids should not be abruptly discontinued."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole - abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular - deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive - anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic - anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional - edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal - arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous - agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory - bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages - herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses - amblyopia. Urogenital - urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE,WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole - abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular - deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive - anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic - anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional - edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal - arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous - agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory - bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages - herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses - amblyopia. Urogenital - urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE , WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE , WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence > 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence > 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, nausea, and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia, and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia, and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock . The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablets treated patients with an incidence > 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablet treated patients with an incidence 23%. In descending order of frequency they were nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonla, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder,pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia, and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia, and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablet treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablet treated patients with an incidence > 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablet treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE, WARNINGS). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride tablet treated patients with an incidence > 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE , WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride, the following adverse events were recorded in oxycodone hydrochloride treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ROXICODONE(R) tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. ROXICODONE(R) tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with ROXICODONE(R) therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSAGE , WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with ROXICODONE(R) are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving ROXICODONE(R), the following adverse events were recorded in ROXICODONE(R) treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection. Postmarketing Experience: Review of postmarketing reports showed the occurrence of the following adverse events: Cardiac disorders: myocardial ischemia and ventricular fibrillation with overdose General disorders and administrative site disorders: drug withdrawal syndrome neonatal Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reactions Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: pharyngeal edema"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ROXICODONE(R) tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain. ROXICODONE(R) tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids. Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with ROXICODONE(R) therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include: respiratory depression, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and/or shock (see OVERDOSE , WARNINGS ). The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with ROXICODONE(R) are also typical opioid side effects. These events are dose dependent, and their frequency depends on the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent of these include nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, and pruritus. In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed, but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy. In all patients for whom dosing information was available (n=191) from the open-label and double-blind studies involving ROXICODONE(R), the following adverse events were recorded in ROXICODONE(R) treated patients with an incidence >= 3%. In descending order of frequency they were: nausea, constipation, vomiting, headache, pruritus, insomnia, dizziness, asthenia, and somnolence. The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3% of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone: Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, back pain, chills and fever, fever, flu syndrome, infection, neck pain, pain, photosensitivity reaction, and sepsis. Cardiovascular: deep thrombophlebitis, heart failure, hemorrhage, hypotension, migraine, palpitation, and tachycardia. Digestive: anorexia, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, gingivitis, glossitis, and nausea and vomiting. Hemic and Lymphatic: anemia and leukopenia. Metabolic and Nutritional: edema, gout, hyperglycemia, iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema. Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain, myalgia and pathological fracture. Nervous: agitation, anxiety, confusion, dry mouth, hypertonia, hypesthesia, nervousness, neuralgia, personality disorder, tremor, and vasodilation. Respiratory: bronchitis, cough increased, dyspnea, epistaxis, laryngismus, lung disorder, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis. Skin and Appendages: herpes simplex, rash, sweating, and urticaria. Special Senses: amblyopia. Urogenital: urinary tract infection."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention Close"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with ENDOCET tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with ENDOCET tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with ENDODAN tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation and pruritus. Aspirin may increase the likelihood of hemorrhage due to its effect on the gastric mucosa and platelet function. Furthermore, aspirin has the potential to cause anaphylaxis in hypersensitive patients as well as angioedema especially in patients with chronic urticaria. Other adverse reactions due to aspirin use include anorexia, reversible hepatotoxicity, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, purpura, decreased plasma iron concentration, and shortened erythrocyte survival time. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with ENDODAN tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, headache, anaphylaxis, fever, hypothermia, thirst, increased sweating, accident, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose. Cardiovascular tachycardia, dysrhythmias, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations Central and Peripheral Nervous System stupor, paresthesia, agitation, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, dizziness, headache, subdural or intracranial hemorrhage, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment Fluid and Electrolyte dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal hemorrhagic gastric/duodenal ulcer, gastric/peptic ulcer, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, eructation, dry mouth, gastrointestinal bleeding, intestinal perforation, nausea, vomiting, transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, Reye syndrome, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hearing and Vestibular hearing loss, tinnitus. Patients with high frequency loss may have difficulty perceiving tinnitus. In these patients, tinnitus cannot be used as a clinical indicator of salicylism. Hematologic unspecified hemorrhage, purpura, reticulocytosis, prolongation of prothrombin time, disseminated intravascular coagulation, ecchymosis, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal rhabdomyolysis Ocular miosis, visual disturbances, red eye. Psychiatric drug dependence, drug abuse, somnolence, depression, nervousness, hallucination Reproductive prolonged pregnancy and labor, stillbirths, lower birth weight infants, antepartum and postpartum bleeding, closure of patent ductus arteriosis Respiratory System bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see Overdosage). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, ancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis have likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, ancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis have likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro\\302\\255intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia , hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis have likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from post-marketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis have likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from post-marketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis have likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, USP use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma may also occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, USP are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see ). OVERDOSAGE The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, nonaccidental overdose Body as a Whole: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Cardiovascular: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Fluid and Electrolyte: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Gastrointestinal: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hepatic: Thrombocytopenia Hematologic: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Hypersensitivity: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Musculoskeletal: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Ocular: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Psychiatric: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Respiratory System: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention Urogenital:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see ). OVERDOSAGE The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see ). OVERDOSAGE The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, nonaccidental overdose Cardiovascular: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a WholeAnaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose CardiovascularHypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous SystemStupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and ElectrolyteDehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis GastrointestinalDyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus HepaticTransient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and VestibularHearing loss, tinnitus HematologicThrombocytopenia HypersensitivityAcute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and NutritionalHypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis MusculoskeletalMyalgia, rhabdomyolysis OcularMiosis, visual disturbances, red eye PsychiatricDrug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory SystemBronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and AppendagesErythema, urticaria, rash, flushing UrogenitalInterstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular: Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte: Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic: Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular: Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular: Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System: Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis have likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with ROXICET are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and aspirin tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation and pruritus. Aspirin may increase the likelihood of hemorrhage due to its effect on the gastric mucosa and platelet function. Furthermore, aspirin has the potential to cause anaphylaxis in hypersensitive patients as well as angioedema especially in patients with chronic urticaria. Other adverse reactions due to aspirin use include anorexia, reversible hepatotoxicity, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, purpura, decreased plasma iron concentration, and shortened erythrocyte survival time. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and aspirin tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, headache, anaphylaxis, fever, hypothermia, thirst, increased sweating, accident, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose. Cardiovascular tachycardia, dysrhythmias, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations Central and Peripheral Nervous System stupor, paresthesia, agitation, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, dizziness, headache, subdural or intracranial hemorrhage, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment Fluid and Electrolyte dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal hemorrhagic gastric/duodenal ulcer, gastric/peptic ulcer, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, eructation, dry mouth, gastrointestinal bleeding, intestinal perforation, nausea, vomiting, transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, Reye's syndrome, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hearing and Vestibular hearing loss, tinnitus. Patients with high frequency loss may have difficulty perceiving tinnitus. In these patients, tinnitus cannot be used as a clinical indicator of salicylism. Hematologic unspecified hemorrhage, purpura, reticulocytosis, prolongation of prothrombin time, disseminated intravascular coagulation, ecchymosis, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal rhabdomyolysis Ocular miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric drug dependence, drug abuse, somnolence, depression, nervousness, hallucination Reproductive prolonged pregnancy and labor, stillbirths, lower birth weight infants, antepartum and postpartum bleeding, closure of patent ductus arteriosis Respiratory System bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and aspirin tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation and pruritus. Aspirin may increase the likelihood of hemorrhage due to its effect on the gastric mucosa and platelet function. Furthermore, aspirin has the potential to cause anaphylaxis in hypersensitive patients as well as angioedema especially in patients with chronic urticaria. Other adverse reactions due to aspirin use include anorexia, reversible hepatotoxicity, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, purpura, decreased plasma iron concentration, and shortened erythrocyte survival time. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and aspirin tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, headache, anaphylaxis, fever, hypothermia, thirst, increased sweating, accident, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose. Cardiovascular tachycardia, dysrhythmias, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations Central and Peripheral Nervous System stupor, paresthesia, agitation, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, dizziness, headache, subdural or intracranial hemorrhage, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment Fluid and Electrolyte dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal hemorrhagic gastric/duodenal ulcer, gastric/peptic ulcer, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, eructation, dry mouth, gastrointestinal bleeding, intestinal perforation, nausea, vomiting, transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, Reye syndrome, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hearing and Vestibular hearing loss, tinnitus. Patients with high frequency loss may have difficulty perceiving tinnitus. In these patients, tinnitus cannot be used as a clinical indicator of salicylism. Hematologic unspecified hemorrhage, purpura, reticulocytosis, prolongation of prothrombin time, disseminated intravascular coagulation, ecchymosis, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal rhabdomyolysis Ocular miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric drug dependence, drug abuse, somnolence, depression, nervousness, hallucination Reproductive prolonged pregnancy and labor, stillbirths, lower birth weight infants, antepartum and postpartum bleeding, closure of patent ductus arteriosis Respiratory System bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and aspirin tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation and pruritus. Aspirin may increase the likelihood of hemorrhage due to its effect on the gastric mucosa and platelet function. Furthermore, aspirin has the potential to cause anaphylaxis in hypersensitive patients as well as angioedema especially in patients with chronic urticaria. Other adverse reactions due to aspirin use include anorexia, reversible hepatotoxicity, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, purpura, decreased plasma iron concentration, and shortened erythrocyte survival time. Other adverse reactions obtained from post-marketing experiences with oxycodone and aspirin tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole: allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, headache, anaphylaxis, fever, hypothermia, thirst, increased sweating, accident, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular: tachycardia, dysrhythmias, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations Central and Peripheral Nervous System: stupor, paresthesia, agitation, cerebral edema, coma, confusion, dizziness, headache, subdural or intracranial hemorrhage, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment Fluid and Electrolyte: dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal: hemorrhagic gastric/duodenal ulcer, gastric/peptic ulcer, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, eructation, dry mouth, gastrointestinal bleeding, intestinal perforation, nausea, vomiting, transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, hepatitis, Reye syndrome, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hearing and Vestibular: hearing loss, tinnitus. Patients with high frequency loss may have difficulty perceiving tinnitus. In these patients, tinnitus cannot be used as a clinical indicator of salicylism. Hematologic: unspecified hemorrhage, purpura, reticulocytosis, prolongation of prothrombin time, disseminated intravascular coagulation, ecchymosis, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional: hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Ocular: miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric: drug dependence, drug abuse, somnolence, depression, nervousness, hallucination Reproductive: prolonged pregnancy and labor, stillbirths, lower birth weight infants, antepartum and postpartum bleeding, closure of patent ductus arteriosis Respiratory System: bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages: urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital: interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with PERCOCET tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with PERCOCET tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with PRIMLEVTM use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with PRIMLEVTM are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with PRIMLEVTM use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma may also occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with PRIMLEVTM are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with ROXICET use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with ROXICET are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with ROXICET use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with ROXICET are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with XOLOX use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactionsmay include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis has likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with XOLOX are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets was evaluated in double-blind clinical trials involving 713 patients with moderate to severe pain of various etiologies. In open-label studies of cancer pain, 187 patients received Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets in total daily doses ranging from 20 mg to 640 mg per day. The average total daily dose was approximately 105 mg per day. Serious adverse reactions which may be associated with Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics, including respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, and (to an even lesser degree) circulatory depression, hypotension, or shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The non-serious adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets are typical opioid side effects. These events are dose-dependent, and their frequency depends upon the dose, the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent (>5%) include: constipation, nausea, somnolence, dizziness, vomiting, pruritus, headache, dry mouth, sweating, and asthenia. In many cases the frequency of these events during initiation of therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration, and the avoidance of large swings in the plasma concentrations of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will cease or decrease in intensity as Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablet therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed. Clinical trials comparing Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets with immediate-release oxycodone and placebo revealed a similar adverse event profile between Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets and immediate-release oxycodone. The most common adverse events (>5%) reported by patients at least once during therapy were: TABLE 3 Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets (n=227) Immediate-Release (n=225) Placebo (n=45) (%) (%) (%) Constipation (23) (26) (7) Nausea (23) (27) (11) Somnolence (23) (24) (4) Dizziness (13) (16) (9) Pruritus (13) (12) (2) Vomiting (12) (14) (7) Headache (7) (8) (7) Dry Mouth (6) (7) (2) Asthenia (6) (7) - Sweating (5) (6) (2) The following adverse experiences were reported in Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets-treated patients with an incidence between 1% and 5%. In descending order of frequency they were anorexia, nervousness, insomnia, fever, confusion, diarrhea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, rash, anxiety, euphoria, dyspnea, postural hypotension, chills, twitching, gastritis, abnormal dreams, thought abnormalities, and hiccups. The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients involved in clinical trials or were reported in postmarketing experience. Blood and lymphatic system disorders: lymphadenopathy Cardiac disorders: palpitations (in the context of withdrawal) Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Endocrine disorders: syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) Eye disorders: abnormal vision Gastrointestinal disorders: dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, ileus, increased appetite, stomatitis General disorders and administration site conditions: chest pain, edema, facial edema, malaise, pain, peripheral edema, thirst, withdrawal syndrome (with and without seizures) Immune system disorders: anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reaction (symptoms of) Infections and infestations: pharyngitis Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: accidental injury Investigations: hyponatremia, increased hepatic enzymes, ST depression Metabolism and nutrition disorders: dehydration Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: neck pain Nervous system disorders: abnormal gait, amnesia, hyperkinesia, hypertonia (muscular), hypesthesia, hypotonia, migraine, paresthesia, seizures, speech disorder, stupor, syncope, taste perversion, tremor, vertigo Psychiatric disorders: agitation, depersonalization, depression, emotional lability, hallucination Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, hematuria, polyuria, urinary retention, urination impaired Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhea, decreased libido, impotence Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough increased, voice alteration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: dry skin, exfoliative dermatitis, urticaria Vascular disorders: vasodilation"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets was evaluated in double-blind clinical trials involving 713 patients with moderate to severe pain of various etiologies. In open-label studies of cancer pain, 187 patients received Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets in total daily doses ranging from 20 mg to 640 mg per day. The average total daily dose was approximately 105 mg per day. Serious adverse reactions which may be associated with Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics, including respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, and (to an even lesser degree) circulatory depression, hypotension, or shock (see OVERDOSAGE). The non-serious adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets are typical opioid side effects. These events are dose-dependent, and their frequency depends upon the dose, the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent (>5%) include: constipation, nausea, somnolence, dizziness, vomiting, pruritus, headache, dry mouth, sweating, and asthenia. In many cases the frequency of these events during initiation of therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration, and the avoidance of large swings in the plasma concentrations of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will cease or decrease in intensity as Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablet therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed. Clinical trials comparing Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets with immediate-release oxycodone and placebo revealed a similar adverse event profile between Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets and immediate-release oxycodone. The most common adverse events (>5%) reported by patients at least once during therapy were: TABLE 3 Oxycodone HCl Controlled- Release Tablets (n=227) (%) Immediate-Release (n=225) (%) Placebo (n=45) (%) Constipation (23) (26) (7) Nausea (23) (27) (11) Somnolence (23) (24) (4) Dizziness (13) (16) (9) Pruritus (13) (12) (2) Vomiting (12) (14) (7) Headache (7) (8) (7) Dry Mouth (6) (7) (2) Asthenia (6) (7) - Sweating (5) (6) (2) The following adverse experiences were reported in Oxycodone HCl Controlled-Release Tablets-treated patients with an incidence between 1% and 5%. In descending order of frequency they were anorexia, nervousness, insomnia, fever, confusion, diarrhea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, rash, anxiety, euphoria, dyspnea, postural hypotension, chills, twitching, gastritis, abnormal dreams, thought abnormalities, and hiccups. The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients involved in clinical trials or were reported in postmarketing experience. Blood and lymphatic system disorders: lymphadenopathy Cardiac disorders: palpitations (in the context of withdrawal) Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Endocrine disorders: syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) Eye disorders: abnormal vision Gastrointestinal disorders: dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, ileus, increased appetite, stomatitis General disorders and administration site conditions: chest pain, edema, facial edema, malaise, pain, peripheral edema, thirst, withdrawal syndrome (with and without seizures) Immune system disorders: anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reaction (symptoms of) Infections and infestations: pharyngitis Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: accidental injury Investigations: hyponatremia, increased hepatic enzymes, ST depression Metabolism and nutrition disorders: dehydration Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: neck pain Nervous system disorders: abnormal gait, amnesia, hyperkinesia, hypertonia (muscular), hypesthesia, hypotonia, migraine, paresthesia, seizures, speech disorder, stupor, syncope, taste perversion, tremor, vertigo Psychiatric disorders: agitation, depersonalization, depression, emotional lability, hallucination Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, hematuria, polyuria, urinary retention, urination impaired Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhea, decreased libido, impotence Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough increased, voice alteration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: dry skin, exfoliative dermatitis, urticaria Vascular disorders: vasodilation"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of OxyContin(R) was evaluated in double-blind clinical trials involving 713 patients with moderate to severe pain of various etiologies. In open-label studies of cancer pain, 187 patients received OxyContin in total daily doses ranging from 20 mg to 640 mg per day. The average total daily dose was approximately 105 mg per day. Serious adverse reactions which may be associated with OxyContin Tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics, including respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, and (to an even lesser degree) circulatory depression, hypotension, or shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The non-serious adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with OxyContin are typical opioid side effects. These events are dose-dependent, and their frequency depends upon the dose, the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent (>5%) include: constipation, nausea, somnolence, dizziness, vomiting, pruritus, headache, dry mouth, sweating, and asthenia. In many cases the frequency of these events during initiation of therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration, and the avoidance of large swings in the plasma concentrations of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will cease or decrease in intensity as OxyContin therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed. Clinical trials comparing OxyContin with immediate-release oxycodone and placebo revealed a similar adverse event profile between OxyContin and immediate-release oxycodone. The most common adverse events (>5%) reported by patients at least once during therapy were: TABLE 3 OxyContin (n=227) Immediate-Release (n=225) Placebo (n=45) (%) (%) (%) Constipation (23) (26) (7) Nausea (23) (27) (11) Somnolence (23) (24) (4) Dizziness (13) (16) (9) Pruritus (13) (12) (2) Vomiting (12) (14) (7) Headache (7) (8) (7) Dry Mouth (6) (7) (2) Asthenia (6) (7) - Sweating (5) (6) (2) The following adverse experiences were reported in OxyContin(R)-treated patients with an incidence between 1% and 5%. In descending order of frequency they were anorexia, nervousness, insomnia, fever, confusion, diarrhea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, rash, anxiety, euphoria, dyspnea, postural hypotension, chills, twitching, gastritis, abnormal dreams, thought abnormalities, and hiccups. The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients involved in clinical trials or were reported in postmarketing experience. Blood and lymphatic system disorders: lymphadenopathy Cardiac disorders: palpitations (in the context of withdrawal) Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Endocrine disorders: syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) Eye disorders: abnormal vision Gastrointestinal disorders: dental caries, dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, ileus, increased appetite, stomatitis General disorders and administration site conditions: chest pain, edema, facial edema, malaise, pain, peripheral edema, thirst, withdrawal syndrome (with and without seizures) Hepatobiliary disorders: cholestasis Immune system disorders: anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reaction (symptoms of) Infections and infestations: pharyngitis Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: accidental injury Investigations: hyponatremia, increased hepatic enzymes, ST depression Metabolism and nutrition disorders: dehydration Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: neck pain Nervous system disorders: abnormal gait, amnesia, hyperkinesia, hypertonia (muscular), hypesthesia, hypotonia, migraine, paresthesia, seizures, speech disorder, stupor, syncope, taste perversion, tremor, vertigo Psychiatric disorders: agitation, depersonalization, depression, emotional lability, hallucination Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, hematuria, polyuria, urinary retention, urination impaired Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhea, decreased libido, impotence Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough increased, voice alteration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: dry skin, exfoliative dermatitis, urticaria Vascular disorders: vasodilation"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of OxyContin(R) was evaluated in double-blind clinical trials involving 713 patients with moderate to severe pain of various etiologies. In open-label studies of cancer pain, 187 patients received OxyContin in total daily doses ranging from 20 mg to 640 mg per day. The average total daily dose was approximately 105 mg per day. Serious adverse reactions which may be associated with OxyContin Tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics, including respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, and (to an even lesser degree) circulatory depression, hypotension, or shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The non-serious adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with OxyContin are typical opioid side effects. These events are dose-dependent, and their frequency depends upon the dose, the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent (>5%) include: constipation, nausea, somnolence, dizziness, vomiting, pruritus, headache, dry mouth, sweating, and asthenia. In many cases the frequency of these events during initiation of therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration, and the avoidance of large swings in the plasma concentrations of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will cease or decrease in intensity as OxyContin therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed. Clinical trials comparing OxyContin with immediate-release oxycodone and placebo revealed a similar adverse event profile between OxyContin and immediate-release oxycodone. The most common adverse events (>5%) reported by patients at least once during therapy were: TABLE 3 OxyContin (n=227) Immediate-Release (n=225) Placebo (n=45) (%) (%) (%) Constipation (23) (26) (7) Nausea (23) (27) (11) Somnolence (23) (24) (4) Dizziness (13) (16) (9) Pruritus (13) (12) (2) Vomiting (12) (14) (7) Headache (7) (8) (7) Dry Mouth (6) (7) (2) Asthenia (6) (7) - Sweating (5) (6) (2) The following adverse experiences were reported in OxyContin(R)-treated patients with an incidence between 1% and 5%. In descending order of frequency they were anorexia, nervousness, insomnia, fever, confusion, diarrhea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, rash, anxiety, euphoria, dyspnea, postural hypotension, chills, twitching, gastritis, abnormal dreams, thought abnormalities, and hiccups. The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients involved in clinical trials or were reported in postmarketing experience. Blood and lymphatic system disorders: lymphadenopathy Cardiac disorders: palpitations (in the context of withdrawal) Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Endocrine disorders: syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) Eye disorders: abnormal vision Gastrointestinal disorders: dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, ileus, increased appetite, stomatitis General disorders and administration site conditions: chest pain, edema, facial edema, malaise, pain, peripheral edema, thirst, withdrawal syndrome (with and without seizures) Immune system disorders: anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reaction (symptoms of) Infections and infestations: pharyngitis Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: accidental injury Investigations: hyponatremia, increased hepatic enzymes, ST depression Metabolism and nutrition disorders: dehydration Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: neck pain Nervous system disorders: abnormal gait, amnesia, hyperkinesia, hypertonia (muscular), hypesthesia, hypotonia, migraine, paresthesia, seizures, speech disorder, stupor, syncope, taste perversion, tremor, vertigo Psychiatric disorders: agitation, depersonalization, depression, emotional lability, hallucination Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, hematuria, polyuria, urinary retention, urination impaired Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhea, decreased libido, impotence Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough increased, voice alteration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: dry skin, exfoliative dermatitis, urticaria Vascular disorders: vasodilation"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of OxyContin(R) was evaluated in double-blind clinical trials involving 713 patients with moderate to severe pain of various etiologies. In open-label studies of cancer pain, 187 patients received OxyContin in total daily doses ranging from 20 mg to 640 mg per day. The average total daily dose was approximately 105 mg per day. Serious adverse reactions which may be associated with OxyContin Tablet therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics, including respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, and (to an even lesser degree) circulatory depression, hypotension, or shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The non-serious adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with OxyContin are typical opioid side effects. These events are dose-dependent, and their frequency depends upon the dose, the clinical setting, the patient's level of opioid tolerance, and host factors specific to the individual. They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia. The most frequent (>5%) include: constipation, nausea, somnolence, dizziness, vomiting, pruritus, headache, dry mouth, sweating, and asthenia. In many cases the frequency of these events during initiation of therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage, slow titration, and the avoidance of large swings in the plasma concentrations of the opioid. Many of these adverse events will cease or decrease in intensity as OxyContin therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed. Clinical trials comparing OxyContin with immediate-release oxycodone and placebo revealed a similar adverse event profile between OxyContin and immediate-release oxycodone. The most common adverse events (>5%) reported by patients at least once during therapy were: The following adverse experiences were reported in OxyContin(R)-treated patients with an incidence between 1% and 5%. In descending order of frequency they were anorexia, nervousness, insomnia, fever, confusion, diarrhea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, rash, anxiety, euphoria, dyspnea, postural hypotension, chills, twitching, gastritis, abnormal dreams, thought abnormalities, and hiccups. The following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1% of patients involved in clinical trials or were reported in postmarketing experience. Blood and lymphatic system disorders: lymphadenopathy Cardiac disorders: palpitations (in the context of withdrawal) Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Endocrine disorders: syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) Eye disorders: abnormal vision Gastrointestinal disorders: dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, ileus, increased appetite, stomatitis General disorders and administration site conditions: chest pain, edema, facial edema, malaise, pain, peripheral edema, thirst, withdrawal syndrome (with and without seizures) Immune system disorders: anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reaction (symptoms of) Infections and infestations: pharyngitis Injury, poisoning and procedural complications: accidental injury Investigations: hyponatremia, increased hepatic enzymes, ST depression Metabolism and nutrition disorders: dehydration Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: neck pain Nervous system disorders: abnormal gait, amnesia, hyperkinesia, hypertonia (muscular), hypesthesia, hypotonia, migraine, paresthesia, seizures, speech disorder, stupor, syncope, taste perversion, tremor, vertigo Psychiatric disorders: agitation, depersonalization, depression, emotional lability, hallucination Renal and urinary disorders: dysuria, hematuria, polyuria, urinary retention, urination impaired Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhea, decreased libido, impotence Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough increased, voice alteration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: dry skin, exfoliative dermatitis, urticaria Vascular disorders: vasodilation"$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions (see PRECAUTIONS) CYP3A mediated N-demethylation is the principal metabolic pathway of oxycodone with a lower contribution from CYP2D6 mediated O-demethylation and can be affected by drugs affecting cytochrome P450 enzymes. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations. For example, a published study showed that the co-administration of the antifungal drug, voriconazole, increased oxycodone AUC and Cmax by 3.6 and 1.7 fold, respectively. Similarly, CYP450 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. A published study showed that the co-administration of rifampin, a drug metabolizing enzyme inducer, decreased oxycodone (oral) AUC and Cmax by 86% and 63%, respectively. Oxycodone is metabolized in part by cytochrome P450 2D6 to oxymorphone which represents less than 15% of the total administered dose. This route of elimination may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs including amiodarone and quinidine as well as polycyclic anti-depressants). However, in a study involving 10 subjects using quinidine, a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2D6, the pharmacodynamic effects of oxycodone were unchanged. The genetic expression of CYP2D6 may have some influence in the pharmacokinetic properties of oxycodone. The in vitro drug-drug interaction studies with noroxymorphone using human liver microsomes showed no significant inhibition of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 activities which suggests that noroxymorphone may not alter the metabolism of other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, and such blockade has not been shown to be of clinical significance with oxycodone.",$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions (see PRECAUTIONS) CYP3A mediated N-demethylation is the principal metabolic pathway of oxycodone with a lower contribution from CYP2D6 mediated O-demethylation and in theory can be affected by drugs affecting cytochrome P450 enzymes. Oxycodone is metabolized in part by cytochrome P450 2D6 to oxymorphone which represents less than 15% of the total administered dose. This route of elimination may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs including amiodarone and quinidine as well as polycyclic anti-depressants). However, in a study involving 10 subjects using quinidine, a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2D6, the pharmacodynamic effects of oxycodone were unchanged.",$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions (see PRECAUTIONS) Drug-Drug Interactions (see PRECAUTIONS) CYP3A mediated N-demethylation is the principal metabolic pathway of oxycodone with a lower contribution from CYP2D6 mediated O-demethylation and in theory can be affected by drugs affecting cytochrome P450 enzymes. Oxycodone is metabolized in part by cytochrome P450 2D6 to oxymorphone which represents less than 15% of the total administered dose. This route of elimination may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs including amiodarone and quinidine as well as polycyclic anti-depressants). However, in a study involving 10 subjects using quinidine, a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2D6, the pharmacodynamic effects of oxycodone were unchanged.",$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Acetaminophen Alcohol, ethyl - Hepatotoxicity has occurred in chronic alcoholics following various dose levels (moderate to excessive) of acetaminophen. Anticholinergics - The onset of acetaminophen effect may be delayed or decreased slightly, but the ultimate pharmacological effect is not significantly affected by anticholinergics. Oral Contraceptives - Increase in glucuronidation resulting in increased plasma clearance and a decreased half-life of acetaminophen. Charcoal (activated) - Reduces acetaminophen absorption when administered as soon as possible after overdose. Beta Blockers (Propanolol) - Propanolol appears to inhibit the enzyme systems responsible for the glucuronidation and oxidation of acetaminophen. Therefore, the pharmacologic effects of acetaminophen may be increased. Loop Diuretics - The effects of the loop diuretic may be decreased because acetaminophen may decrease renal prostaglandin excretion and decrease plasma renin activity. Lamotrigine - Serum lamotrigine concentrations may be reduced, producing a decrease in therapeutic effects. Probenecid - Probenecid may increase the therapeutic effectiveness of acetaminophen slightly. Zidovudine - The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced nonhepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine."$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP450 Inducers Oxycodone is extensively metabolized by multiple metabolic pathways. CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in noroxycodone formation followed by CYP2B6, CYP2C9/19 and CYP2D6. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolonged opioid effects. Similarly, CYP450 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration with oxycodone and aspirin tablets is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP450 inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and aspirin tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms.",$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP450 Inducers Oxycodone is extensively metabolized by multiple metabolic pathways. CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in noroxycodone formation followed by CYP2B6, CYP2C9/19 and CYP2D6. Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 activity, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may cause decreased clearance of oxycodone which could lead to an increase in oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolonged opioid effects. Similarly, CYP450 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may induce the metabolism of oxycodone and, therefore, may cause increased clearance of the drug which could lead to a decrease in oxycodone plasma concentrations, lack of efficacy or, possibly, development of an abstinence syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. If co-administration with oxycodone and aspirin tablets is necessary, caution is advised when initiating therapy with, currently taking, or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP450 inducers. Evaluate these patients at frequent intervals and consider dose adjustments until stable drug effects are achieved. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscularblocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and aspirin tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms.",$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with ENDODAN tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Drug/Drug Interactions with Aspirin Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors: The hyponatremic and hypotensive effects of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to its indirect effect on the renin-angiotensin conversion pathway. Acetazolamide: Concurrent use of aspirin and acetazolamide can lead to high serum concentrations of acetazolamide (and toxicity) due to competition at the renal tubule for secretion. Anticoagulant Therapy (Heparin and Warfarin): Patients on anticoagulation therapy are at increased risk for bleeding because of drug-drug interactions and the effect on platelets. Aspirin can displace warfarin from protein binding sites, leading to prolongation of both the prothrombin time and the bleeding time. Aspirin can increase the anticoagulant activity of heparin, increasing bleeding risk. Anticonvulsants: Salicylate can displace protein-bound phenytoin and valproic acid, leading to a decrease in the total concentration of phenytoin and an increase in serum valproic acid levels. Beta Blockers: The hypotensive effects of beta blockers may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow, and salt and fluid retention. Diuretics: The effectiveness of diuretics in patients with underlying renal or cardiovascular disease may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. Methotrexate: Aspirin may enhance the serious side and toxicity of methotrexate due to displacement from its plasma protein binding sites and/or reduced renal clearance. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAID's): The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAID's should be avoided because this may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. Aspirin may enhance the serious side effects and toxicity of ketorolac, due to displacement from its plasma protein binding sites and/or reduced renal clearance. Oral Hypoglycemics Agents: Aspirin may increase the serum glucose-lowering action of insulin and sulfonylureas leading to hypoglycemia. Uricosuric Agents: Salicylates antagonize the uricosuric action of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Depending on the sensitivity/specificity and the test methodology, the individual components of ENDODAN tablets may cross-react with assays used in the preliminary detection of cocaine (primary urinary metabolite, benzoylecgonine) or marijuana (cannabinoids) in human urine. A more specific alternate chemical method must be used in order to obtain a confirmed analytical result. The preferred confirmatory method is gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Moreover, clinical considerations and professional judgment should be applied to any drug-of-abuse test result, particularly when preliminary positive results are used. Salicylates may increase the protein bound iodine (PBI) result by competing for the protein binding sites on pre-albumin and possibly thyroid-binding globulins."$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms.",$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting antiemetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms.",$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting antiemetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms."$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting antiemetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Drug/Drug Interactions with Acetaminophen Alcohol, ethyl: Hepatotoxicity has occurred in chronic alcoholics following various dose levels (moderate to excessive) of acetaminophen. Anticholinergics: The onset of acetaminophen effect may be delayed or decreased slightly, but the ultimate pharmacological effect is not significantly affected by anticholinergics. Oral Contraceptives: Increase in glucuronidation resulting in increased plasma clearance and a decreased half-life of acetaminophen. Charcoal (activated): Reduces acetaminophen absorption when administered as soon as possible after overdose. Beta-Blockers (Propranolol): Propranolol appears to inhibit the enzyme systems responsible for the glucuronidation and oxidation of acetaminophen. Therefore, the pharmacologic effects of acetaminophen may be increased. Loop diuretics: The effects of the loop diuretic may be decreased because acetaminophen may decrease renal prostaglandin excretion and decrease plasma renin activity. Lamotrigine: Serum lamotrigine concentrations may be reduced, producing a decrease in therapeutic effects. Probenecid: Probenecid may increase the therapeutic effectiveness of acetaminophen slightly. Zidovudine: The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced non-hepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine."$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with ROXICET may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms."$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with XOLOX may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms.",$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Drug/Drug Interactions with Acetaminophen Alcohol, ethyl: Hepatotoxicity has occurred in chronic alcoholics following various dose levels (moderate to excessive) of acetaminophen. Anticholinergics: The onset of acetaminophen effect may be delayed or decreased slightly, but the ultimate pharmacological effect is not significantly affected by anticholinergics. Oral Contraceptives: Increase in glucuronidation resulting in increased plasma clearance and a decreased half-life of acetaminophen. Charcoal (activated): Reduces acetaminophen absorption when administered as soon as possible after overdose. Beta Blockers (Propanolol): Propranolol appears to inhibit the enzyme systems responsible for the glucuronidation and oxidation of acetaminophen. Therefore, the pharmacologic effects of acetaminophen may be increased. Loop diuretics: The effects of the loop diuretic may be decreased because acetaminophen may decrease renal prostaglandin excretion and decrease plasma renin activity. Lamotrigine: Serum lamotrigine concentrations may be reduced, producing a decrease in therapeutic effects. Probenecid: Probenecid may increase the therapeutic effectiveness of acetaminophen slightly. Zidovudine: The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced non-hepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents - Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants - Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics - Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) - MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs, or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs, or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent; however, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents - Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants - Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics - Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) - MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular, blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs, or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment.",$$
"Drug Interactions: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular, blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs, or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with ROXICODONE(R) may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of ROXICODONE(R). When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as ROXICODONE(R). In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of ROXICODONE(R) and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of ROXICODONE(R) is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions: Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Review of postmarketing reports has also shown that muscle relaxants, such as cyclobenzaprine, when used with oxycodone may potentially enhance serotonergic activity and result in the development of serotonin syndrome. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with ROXICODONE(R) may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of ROXICODONE(R). When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as ROXICODONE(R). In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of ROXICODONE(R) and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of ROXICODONE(R) is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Review of postmarketing reports has also shown that MAOIs, such as phenelzine, when used with oxycodone may potentially enhance serotonergic activity and result in the development of serotonin syndrome. Other Antidepressants (Tricyclic Antidepressant or TCA, Serotonin-Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitor or SNRI and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor or SSRI: Review of postmarketing reports has shown that other antidepressants, such as TCAs (e.g. doxepine), SSRIs (e.g. fluvoxamine) and SNRIs (e.g. duloxetine and venlafaxine), when used with oxycodone may potentially enhance serotonergic activity and result in the development of serotonin syndrome."$$
"Interactions Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. CNS Depressants: Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment.",$$
"Interactions Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6. While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs (e.g., certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants), such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent. However, clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction. : Oxycodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents : Patients receiving narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. CNS Depressants : Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics : MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma. The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs)",$$
"Interactions with Other CNS Depressants Patients receiving other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with PERCOCET tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced.",$$
"Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet use include respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, circulatory depression, hypotension, and shock (see OVERDOSAGE ). The most frequently observed non-serious adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, drowsiness or sedation, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, and pruritus. Hypersensitivity reactions may include: Skin eruptions, urticarial, erythematous skin reactions. Hematologic reactions may include: Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia. Rare cases of agranulocytosis have likewise been associated with acetaminophen use. In high doses, the most serious adverse effect is a dose-dependent, potentially fatal hepatic necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis and hypoglycemic coma also may occur. Other adverse reactions obtained from postmarketing experiences with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are listed by organ system and in decreasing order of severity and/or frequency as follows: Body as a Whole Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction, malaise, asthenia, fatigue, chest pain, fever, hypothermia, thirst, headache, increased sweating, accidental overdose, non-accidental overdose Cardiovascular Hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmias Central and Peripheral Nervous System Stupor, tremor, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, lethargy, seizures, anxiety, mental impairment, agitation, cerebral edema, confusion, dizziness Fluid and Electrolyte Dehydration, hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, respiratory alkalosis Gastrointestinal Dyspepsia, taste disturbances, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, sweating increased, diarrhea, dry mouth, flatulence, gastro-intestinal disorder, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction, ileus Hepatic Transient elevations of hepatic enzymes, increase in bilirubin, hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, hepatotoxicity, hepatic disorder Hearing and Vestibular Hearing loss, tinnitus Hematologic Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity Acute anaphylaxis, angioedema, asthma, bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, urticaria, anaphylactoid reaction Metabolic and Nutritional Hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, acidosis, alkalosis Musculoskeletal Myalgia, rhabdomyolysis Ocular Miosis, visual disturbances, red eye Psychiatric Drug dependence, drug abuse, insomnia, confusion, anxiety, agitation, depressed level of consciousness, nervousness, hallucination, somnolence, depression, suicide Respiratory System Bronchospasm, dyspnea, hyperpnea, pulmonary edema, tachypnea, aspiration, hypoventilation, laryngeal edema Skin and Appendages Erythema, urticaria, rash, flushing Urogenital Interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, proteinuria, renal insufficiency and failure, urinary retention"$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS WARNINGS Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Serious skin reactions Rarely, acetaminophen can cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity/anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy. Misuse, Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Oxycodone is an opioid agonist of the morphine-type. Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Oxycodone can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse, or diversion. Concerns about misuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Administration of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should be closely monitored for the following potentially serious adverse reactions and complications: Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is a hazard with the use of oxycodone, one of the active ingredients in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, as with all opioid agonists. Elderly and debilitated patients are at particular risk for respiratory depression as are non-tolerant patients given large initial doses of oxycodone or when oxycodone is given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Oxycodone should be used with extreme caution in patients with acute asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), cor pulmonale, or preexisting respiratory impairment. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of oxycodone may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea. In these patients alternative non-opioid analgesics should be considered, and opioids should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose. In case of respiratory depression, a reversal agent such as naloxone hydrochloride may be utilized (see OVERDOSAGE). Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of opioids include carbon dioxide retention and secondary elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure, and may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure. Oxycodone produces effects on pupillary response and consciousness which may obscure neurologic signs of worsening in patients with head injuries. Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone may cause severe hypotension particularly in individuals whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs which compromise vasomotor tone such as phenothiazines. Oxycodone, like all opioid analgesics of the morphine-type, should be administered with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Oxycodone may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Hepatotoxicity Precaution should be taken in patients with liver disease. Hepatotoxicity and severe hepatic failure occurred in chronic alcoholics following therapeutic doses. PRECAUTIONS General Opioid analgesics should be used with caution when combined with CNS depressant drugs, and should be reserved for cases where the benefits of opioid analgesia outweigh the known risks of respiratory depression, altered mental state, and postural hypotension. Acute Abdominal Conditions: The administration of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should be given with caution to patients with CNS depression, elderly or debilitated patients, patients with severe impairment of hepatic, pulmonary, or renal function, hypothyroidism, Addison's disease, prostatic hypertrophy, urethral stricture, acute alcoholism, delirium tremens, kyphoscoliosis with respiratory depression, myxedema, and toxic psychosis. Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. Oxycodone may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders, and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings. Following administration of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients with a known hypersensitivity to codeine, a compound with a structure similar to morphine and oxycodone. The frequency of this possible cross-sensitivity is unknown. Interactions with Other CNS Depressants: Patients receiving other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. Interactions with Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics: Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone. In this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients. Ambulatory Surgery and Postoperative Use: Oxycodone and other morphine-like opioids have been shown to decrease bowel motility. Ileus is a common postoperative complication, especially after intra-abdominal surgery with use of opioid analgesia. Caution should be taken to monitor for decreased bowel motility in postoperative patients receiving opioids. Standard supportive therapy should be implemented. Use in Pancreatic/Biliary Tract Disease: Oxycodone may cause spasm of the Sphincter of Oddi and should be used with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis. Opioids like oxycodone may cause increases in the serum amylase level. Tolerance and Physical Dependence: Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia (in the absence of disease progression or other external factors). Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist. Physical dependence and tolerance are not unusual during chronic opioid therapy. The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following: restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other symptoms also may develop, including: irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. In general, opioids should not be abruptly discontinued (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Cessation of Therapy). Information for Patients/Caregivers Do not take Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP if you are allergic to any of its ingredients. If you develop signs of allergy such as a rash or difficulty breathing stop taking Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP and contact your healthcare provider immediately. Do not take more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day. Call your doctor if you took more than the recommended dose. The following information should be provided to patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets by their physician, nurse, pharmacist, or caregiver: Patients should be aware that oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets contain oxycodone, which is a morphine-like substance. Patients should be instructed to keep oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a secure place out of the reach of children. In the case of accidental ingestions, emergency medical care should be sought immediately. When oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are no longer needed, the unused tablets should be destroyed by flushing down the toilet. Patients should be advised not to adjust the medication dose themselves. Instead, they must consult with their prescribing physician. Patients should be advised that oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may impair mental and/or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks (e.g., driving, operating heavy machinery). Patients should not combine oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with alcohol, opioid analgesics, tranquilizers, sedatives, or other CNS depressants unless under the recommendation and guidance of a physician. When co-administered with another CNS depressant, oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets can cause dangerous additive central nervous system or respiratory depression, which can result in serious injury or death. The safe use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets during pregnancy has not been established; thus, women who are planning to become pregnant or are pregnant should consult with their physician before taking oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Nursing mothers should consult with their physicians about whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets because of the potential for serious adverse reactions to nursing infants. Patients who are treated with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for more than a few weeks should be advised not to abruptly discontinue the medication. Patients should consult with their physician for a gradual discontinuation dose schedule to taper off the medication. 10. Patients should be advised that oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are a potential drug of abuse. They should protect it from theft, and it should never be given to anyone other than the individual for whom it was prescribed. Laboratory Tests Although oxycodone may cross-react with some drug urine tests, no available studies were found which determined the duration of detectability of oxycodone in urine drug screens. However, based on pharmacokinetic data, the approximate duration of detectability for a single dose of oxycodone is roughly estimated to be one to two days following drug exposure. Urine testing for opiates may be performed to determine illicit drug use and for medical reasons such as evaluation of patients with altered states of consciousness or monitoring efficacy of drug rehabilitation efforts. The preliminary identification of opiates in urine involves the use of an immunoassay screening and thin-layer chromatography (TLC). Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) may be utilized as a third-stage identification step in the medical investigational sequence for opiate testing after immunoassay and TLC. The identities of 6-keto opiates (e.g., oxycodone) can further be differentiated by the analysis of their methoximetrimethylsilyl (MO-TMS) derivative. Drug/Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Opioid analgesics may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Patients receiving CNS depressants such as other opioid analgesics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, other tranquilizers, centrally-acting anti-emetics, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with opioids may produce paralytic ileus. Agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, naltrexone, and butorphanol) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a pure opioid agonist such as oxycodone. These agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Drug/Drug Interactions with Acetaminophen Alcohol, Ethyl: Hepatotoxicity has occurred in chronic alcoholics following various dose levels (moderate to excessive) of acetaminophen. Anticholinergics: The onset of acetaminophen effect may be delayed or decreased slightly, but the ultimate pharmacological effect is not significantly affected by anticholinergics. Oral Contraceptives: Increase in glucuronidation resulting in increased plasma clearance and a decreased half-life of acetaminophen. Charcoal (Activated): Reduces acetaminophen absorption when administered as soon as possible after overdose. Beta Blockers (Propanolol): Propranolol appears to inhibit the enzyme systems responsible for the glucuronidation and oxidation of acetaminophen. Therefore, the pharmacologic effects of acetaminophen may be increased. Loop Diuretics: The effects of the loop diuretic may be decreased because acetaminophen may decrease renal prostaglandin excretion and decrease plasma renin activity. Lamotrigine: Serum lamotrigine concentrations may be reduced, producing a decrease in therapeutic effects. Probenecid: Probenecid may increase the therapeutic effectiveness of acetaminophen slightly. Zidovudine: The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced non-hepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Depending on the sensitivity/specificity and the test methodology, the individual components of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cross-react with assays used in the preliminary detection of cocaine (primary urinary metabolite, benzoylecgonine) or marijuana (cannabinoids) in human urine. A more specific alternate chemical method must be used in order to obtain a confirmed analytical result. The preferred confirmatory method is gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Moreover, clinical considerations and professional judgment should be applied to any drug-of-abuse test result, particularly when preliminary positive results are used. Acetaminophen may interfere with home blood glucose measurement systems; decreases of > 20% in mean glucose values may be noted. This effect appears to be drug, concentration and system dependent. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis: Animal studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of oxycodone and acetaminophen have not been performed. Mutagenesis: The combination of oxycodone and acetaminophen has not been evaluated for mutagenicity. Oxycodone alone was negative in a bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames), an in vitro chromosome aberration assay with human lymphocytes without metabolic activation and an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay. Oxycodone was clastogenic in the human lymphocyte chromosomal assay in the presence of metabolic activation and in the mouse lymphoma assay with or without metabolic activation. Fertility: Animal studies to evaluate the effects of oxycodone on fertility have not been performed. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category C: Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. It is also not known whether oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity. Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should not be given to a pregnant woman unless in the judgment of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards. Nonteratogenic Effects: Opioids can cross the placental barrier and have the potential to cause neonatal respiratory depression. Opioid use during pregnancy may result in a physically drug-dependent fetus. After birth, the neonate may suffer severe withdrawal symptoms. Labor and Delivery Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are not recommended for use in women during and immediately prior to labor and delivery due to its potential effects on respiratory function in the newborn. Nursing Mothers Ordinarily, nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets because of the possibility of sedation and/or respiratory depression in the infant. Oxycodone is excreted in breast milk in low concentrations, and there have been rare reports of somnolence and lethargy in babies of nursing mothers taking an oxycodone/acetaminophen product. Acetaminophen is also excreted in breast milk in low concentrations. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use Special precaution should be given when determining the dosing amount and frequency of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for geriatric patients, since clearance of oxycodone may be slightly reduced in this patient population when compared to younger patients. Hepatic Impairment In a pharmacokinetic study of oxycodone in patients with end-stage liver disease, oxycodone plasma clearance decreased and the elimination half-life increased. Care should be exercised when oxycodone is used in patients with hepatic impairment. Renal Impairment In a study of patients with end-stage renal impairment, mean elimination half-life was prolonged in uremic patients due to increased volume of distribution and reduced clearance. Oxycodone should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment."$$
