
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hepatic: Cholestatic jaundice with, rarely, hepatic necrosis and death. Hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis have been reported in association with long-term androgenic anabolic steroid therapy (see WARNINGS ). Genitourinary System: In Men: Prepubertal: Phallic enlargement and increased frequency of erections. Postpubertal: Inhibition of testicular function, testicular atrophy and oligospermia, impotence, chronic priapism, epididymitis, bladder irritability and decrease in seminal volume. In Women: Clitoral enlargement, menstrual irregularities. In Both Sexes: Increased or decreased libido. CNS: Excitation, insomnia. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea. Hematologic: Bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, iron-deficiency anemia. Leukemia has been observed in patients with aplastic anemia treated with oxymetholone. The role, if any, of oxymetholone is unclear because malignant transformation has been seen in patients with blood dyscrasias and leukemia has been reported in patients with aplastic anemia who have not been treated with oxymetholone. Breast: Gynecomastia. Larynx: Deepening of the voice in women. Hair: Hirsutism and male-pattern baldness in women, male-pattern of hair loss in postpubertal males. Skin: Acne (especially in women and prepubertal boys). Skeletal: Premature closure of epiphyses in children (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ), muscle cramps. Body as a Whole: Chills. Fluid and Electrolytes: Edema, retention of serum electrolytes (sodium, chloride, potassium, phosphate, calcium). Metabolic/Endocrine: Decreased glucose tolerance (see PRECAUTIONS ), increased serum levels of low-density lipoproteins and decreased levels of high-density lipoproteins (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ), increased creatine and creatinine excretion, increased serum levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). Reversible changes in liver function tests also occur, including increased Bromsulphalein (BSP) retention and increase in serum bilirubin, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) and alkaline phosphatase."$$
"Drug Interactions: Warfarin: Clinically significant pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between anabolic steroids and warfarin have been reported in healthy volunteers. When anabolic steroid therapy is initiated in a patient already receiving treatment with warfarin, the INR (international normalized ratio) or prothrombin time (PT) should be monitored closely and the dose of warfarin adjusted as necessary until a stable target INR or PT has been achieved. Furthermore, in patients receiving both ANADROL(R)-50 Tablets and warfarin, careful monitoring of the INR or PT and adjustment of the warfarin dosage, if indicated, are recommended when the ANADROL(R)-50 dose is changed or discontinued. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of occult bleeding. Anticoagulants: Anabolic steroids may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased in order to maintain the desired prothrombin time. Patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy require close monitoring, especially when anabolic steroids are started or stopped."$$
