
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the mother: Anaphylactic reaction Nausea Postpartum hemorrhage Vomiting Cardiac arrhythmia Premature ventricular contractions Fatal afibrinogenemia Pelvic hematoma Excessive dosage or hypersensitivity to the drug may result in uterine hypertonicity, spasm, tetanic contraction or rupture of the uterus. The possibility of increased blood loss and afibrinogenemia should be kept in mind when administering the drug. Severe water intoxication with convulsions and coma has occurred, and is associated with a slow oxytocin infusion over a 24-hour period. Maternal death due to oxytocin-induced water intoxication has been reported. The following adverse reactions have been reported in the fetus or infant: Due to induced uterine mobility Due to use of oxytocin in the mother Bradycardia Neonatal retinal hemorrhage Premature ventricular contractions and other arrhythmias Low Apgar scores at five minutes Permanent CNS or brain damage Neonatal jaundice Fetal death"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the mother: Anaphylactic reaction Nausea Postpartum hemorrhage Vomiting Cardiac arrhythmia Premature ventricular contractions Fatal afibrinogenemia Pelvic hematoma Excessive dosage or hypersensitivity to the drug may result in uterine hypertonicity, spasm, tetanic contraction, or rupture of the uterus. The possibility of increased blood loss and afibrinogenemia should be kept in mind when administering the drug. Severe water intoxication with convulsions and coma has occurred, associated with a slow oxytocin infusion over a 24-hour period. Maternal death due to oxytocin-induced water intoxication has been reported. The following adverse reactions have been reported in the fetus or infant: (Due to induced uterine motility) Bradycardia Premature ventricular contractions and other arrhythmias Permanent CNS or brain damage Fetal death (Due to use of oxytocin in the mother) Low Apgar scores at five minutes Neonatal jaundice Neonatal retinal hemorrhage"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the mother: Anaphylactic reaction Postpartum hemorrhage Cardiac arrhythmia Fatal afibrinogenemia Nausea Vomiting Premature ventricular contractions Pelvic hematoma Excessive dosage or hypersensitivity to the drug may result in uterine hypertonicity, spasm, tetanic contraction or rupture of the uterus. The possibility of increased blood loss and afibrinogenemia should be kept in mind when administering the drug. Severe water intoxication with convulsions and coma has occurred, and is associated with a slow oxytocin infusion over a 24-hour period. Maternal death due to oxytocin-induced water intoxication has been reported. The following adverse reactions have been reported in the fetus or infant: Due to induced uterine mobility: Bradycardia Premature ventricular contractions and other arrhythmias Permanent CNS or brain damage Fetal death Due to use of oxytocin in the mother: Neonatal retinal hemorrhage Low Apgar scores at five minutes Neonatal jaundice"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the mother: Anaphylactic reaction Premature ventricular contractions Postpartum hemorrhage Pelvic hematoma Cardiac arrhythmia Subarachnoid hemorrhage Fatal afibrinogenemia Hypertensive episodes Nausea Rupture of the uterus Vomiting Excessive dosage or hypersensitivity to the drug may result in uterine hypertonicity, spasm, tetanic contraction, or rupture of the uterus. The possibility of increased blood loss and afibrinogenemia should be kept in mind when administering the drug. Severe water intoxication with convulsions and coma has occurred, associated with a slow oxytocin infusion over a 24-hour period. Maternal death due to oxytocin-induced water intoxication has been reported. The following adverse reactions have been reported in the fetus or neonate: Due to induced uterine motility: Due to use of oxytocin in the mother: Bradycardia Low Apgar scores at five minutes Premature ventricular contractions and other arrhythmias Neonatal jaundice Permanent CNS or brain damage Neonatal retinal hemorrhage Fetal death Neonatal seizures have been reported with the use of oxytocin. For medical advice about adverse reactions contact your medical professional. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact JHP at 1-866-923-2547 or MEDWATCH at 1-800-FDA-1088 (1-800-332-1088) or http://www.fda.gov/medwatch/."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the mother: Anaphylactic reaction Premature ventricular contractions Postpartum hemorrhage Pelvic hematoma Cardiac arrhythmia Subarachnoid hemorrhage Fatal afibrinogenemia Hypertensive episodes Nausea Rupture of the uterus Vomiting Excessive dosage or hypersensitivity to the drug may result in uterine hypertonicity, spasm, tetanic contraction, or rupture of the uterus. The possibility of increased blood loss and afibrinogenemia should be kept in mind when administering the drug. Severe water intoxication with convulsions and coma has occurred, associated with a slow oxytocin infusion over a 24-hour period. Maternal death due to oxytocin-induced water intoxication has been reported. The following adverse reactions have been reported in the fetus or neonate: Due to induced uterine motility: Due to use of oxytocin in the mother: Bradycardia Low Apgar scores at five minutes Premature ventricular contractions and other arrhythmias Neonatal jaundice Permanent CNS or brain damage Neonatal retinal hemorrhage Fetal death Neonatal seizures have been reported with the use of Pitocin. For medical advice about adverse reactions contact your medical professional. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact JHP at 1-866-923-2547 or MEDWATCH at 1-800-FDA-1088 (1-800-332-1088) or http://www.fda.gov/medwatch/."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the mother: Anaphylactic reaction Premature ventricular contractions Postpartum hemorrhage Pelvic hematoma Cardiac arrhythmia Subarachnoid hemorrhage Fatal afibrinogenemia Hypertensive episodes Nausea Rupture of the uterus Vomiting Excessive dosage or hypersensitivity to the drug may result in uterine hypertonicity, spasm, tetanic contraction, or rupture of the uterus. The possibility of increased blood loss and afibrinogenemia should be kept in mind when administering the drug. Severe water intoxication with convulsions and coma has occurred, associated with a slow oxytocin infusion over a 24-hour period. Maternal death due to oxytocin-induced water intoxication has been reported. The following adverse reactions have been reported in the fetus or neonate: Due to induced uterine motility: Due to use of oxytocin in the mother: Bradycardia Low Apgar scores at five minutes Premature ventricular contractions and other arrhythmias Neonatal jaundice Permanent CNS or brain damage Neonatal retinal hemorrhage Fetal death Neonatal seizures have been reported with the use of Pitocin. For medical advice about adverse reactions contact your medical professional. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. at 1-800-828-9393 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 (1-800-332-1088) or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"Drug Interactions Severe hypertension has been reported when oxytocin was given three to four hours following prophylactic administration of a vasoconstrictor in conjunction with caudal block anesthesia. Cyclopropane anesthesia may modify oxytocin's cardiovascular effects, so as to produce unexpected results such as hypotension. Maternal sinus bradycardia with abnormal atrioventricular rhythms has also been noted when oxytocin was used concomitantly with cyclopropane anesthesia."$$
"Drug Interactions Severe hypertension has been reported when oxytocin was given three to four hours following prophylactic administration of a vasoconstrictor in conjunction with caudal-block anesthesia. Cyclopropane anesthesia may modify oxytocin's cardiovascular effects, so as to produce unexpected results such as hypotension. Maternal sinus bradycardia with abnormal atrioventricular rhythms has also been noted when oxytocin was used concomitantly with cyclopropane anesthesia."$$
