"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Fatal splenic rupture: Evaluate patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture. (5.1) Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS): Evaluate patients who develop fever, lung infiltrates, or respiratory distress. Discontinue Neulasta in patients with ARDS. (5.2) Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis: Permanently discontinue Neulasta in patients with serious allergic reactions. (5.3) The On-body Injector for Neulasta uses acrylic adhesive. For patients who have reactions to acrylic adhesives, use of this product may result in a significant reaction (5.4) Fatal sickle cell crises: Have occurred. (5.5) Glomerulonephritis: Evaluate and consider dose-reduction or interruption of Neulasta if causality is likely. (5.6) 5.1 Splenic Rupture Splenic rupture, including fatal cases, can occur following the administration of Neulasta. Evaluate for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture in patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain after receiving Neulasta. 5.2 Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) can occur in patients receiving Neulasta. Evaluate patients who develop fever and lung infiltrates or respiratory distress after receiving Neulasta, for ARDS. Discontinue Neulasta in patients with ARDS. 5.3 Serious Allergic Reactions Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, can occur in patients receiving Neulasta. The majority of reported events occurred upon initial exposure. Allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, can recur within days after the discontinuation of initial anti-allergic treatment. Permanently discontinue Neulasta in patients with serious allergic reactions. Do not administer Neulasta to patients with a history of serious allergic reactions to pegfilgrastim or filgrastim. 5.4 Allergies to Acrylics The On-body Injector for Neulasta uses acrylic adhesive. For patients who have reactions to acrylic adhesives, use of this product may result in a significant reaction. 5.5 Use in Patients w ith Sickle Cell Disorders Severe sickle cell crises can occur in patients with sickle cell disorders receiving Neulasta. Severe and sometimes fatal sickle cell crises can occur in patients with sickle cell disorders receiving filgrastim, the parent compound of pegfilgrastim. 5.6 Glomerulonephritis Glomerulonephritis has occurred in patients receiving Neulasta. The diagnoses were based upon azotemia, hematuria (microscopic and macroscopic), proteinuria, and renal biopsy. Generally, events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or discontinuation of Neulasta. If glomerulonephritis is suspected, evaluate for cause. If causality is likely, consider dose-reduction or interruption of Neulasta. 5.7 Leukocytosis White blood cell (WBC) counts of 100 x 109/L or greater have been observed in patients receiving pegfilgrastim. Monitoring of complete blood count (CBC) during pegfilgrastim therapy is recommended. 5.8 Capillary Leak Syndrome Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after G-CSF administration, including Neulasta, and is characterized by hypotension, hypoalbuminemia, edema and hemoconcentration. Episodes vary in frequency, severity and may be life-threatening if treatment is delayed. Patients who develop symptoms of capillary leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment, which may include a need for intensive care. 5.9 Potential for Tumor Growth Stimulatory Effects on Malignant Cells The granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) receptor through which pegfilgrastim and filgrastim act has been found on tumor cell lines. The possibility that pegfilgrastim acts as a growth factor for any tumor type, including myeloid malignancies and myelodysplasia, diseases for which pegfilgrastim is not approved, cannot be excluded."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Splenic Rupture [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Serious Allergic Reactions [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Allergies to Acrylics [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Use in Patients with Sickle Cell Disorders [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Glomerulonephritis [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Leukocytosis [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Capillary Leak Syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Potential for Tumor Growth Stimulatory Effects on Malignant Cells [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] Most common adverse reactions (>= 5% difference in incidence compared to placebo) are bone pain and pain in extremity. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Amgen Inc. at 1-800-77-AMGEN (1-800-772-6436) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Neulasta clinical trials safety data are based upon 932 patients receiving Neulasta in seven randomized clinical trials. The population was 21 to 88 years of age and 92% female. The ethnicity was 75% Caucasian, 18% Hispanic, 5% Black, and 1% Asian. Patients with breast (n = 823), lung and thoracic tumors (n = 53) and lymphoma (n = 56) received Neulasta after nonmyeloablative cytotoxic chemotherapy. Most patients received a single 100 mcg/kg (n = 259) or a single 6 mg (n = 546) dose per chemotherapy cycle over 4 cycles. The following adverse reaction data in Table 2 are from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in patients with metastatic or non-metastatic breast cancer receiving docetaxel 100 mg/m2 every 21 days (Study 3). A total of 928 patients were randomized to receive either 6 mg Neulasta (n = 467) or placebo (n = 461). The patients were 21 to 88 years of age and 99% female. The ethnicity was 66% Caucasian, 31% Hispanic, 2% Black, and <1% Asian, Native American or other. The most common adverse reactions occurring in >= 5% of patients and with a between-group difference of >= 5% higher in the pegfilgrastim arm in placebo controlled clinical trials are bone pain and pain in extremity. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with >= 5% Higher Incidence in Neulasta Patients Compared to Placebo in (Study 3) System Organ Class Preferred Term Placebo (N= 461) Neulasta 6 mg SC on Day 2 (N= 467) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Bone pain 26% 31% Pain in extremity 4% 9% Leukocytosis In clinical studies, leukocytosis (WBC counts > 100 x 109/L) was observed in less than 1% of 932 patients with non-myeloid malignancies receiving Neulasta. No complications attributable to leukocytosis were reported in clinical studies. 6.2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Binding antibodies to pegfilgrastim were detected using a BIAcore assay. The approximate limit of detection for this assay is 500 ng/mL. Pre-existing binding antibodies were detected in approximately 6% (51/849) of patients with metastatic breast cancer. Four of 521 pegfilgrastim-treated subjects who were negative at baseline developed binding antibodies to pegfilgrastim following treatment. None of these 4 patients had evidence of neutralizing antibodies detected using a cell-based bioassay. The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay, and the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors, including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to Neulasta with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Neulasta. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Splenic rupture and splenomegaly (enlarged spleen) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Allergic reactions/hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, skin rash, and urticaria, generalized erythema and flushing [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Sickle cell crisis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Glomerulonephritis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Leukocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Capillary leak syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Injection site reactions Sweet's syndrome (acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis), cutaneous vasculitis"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies between Neulasta and other drugs have been performed. Increased hematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy may result in transiently positive bone-imaging changes. Consider these findings when interpreting bone-imaging results."$$
