"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular. Hypertension, hypotension, circulatory depression, tachycardia, syncope. Respiratory. Rarely, respiratory depression. Acute CNS Manifestations. Hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion . Other CNS Effects. Grand mal convulsions, increase in intracranial pressure, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, and depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic. Sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Gastrointestinal. Nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, anorexia, dry mouth, biliary tract spasm, and rarely abdominal distress. Allergic. Edema of the face; anaphylactic shock; dermatitis, including pruritus; flushed skin, including plethora; infrequently rash, and rarely urticaria. Ophthalmic. Visual blurring and focusing difficulty, miosis. Hematologic. Depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), with rare cases of agranulocytosis, which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Dependence and Withdrawal Symptoms. (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS, and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Sections). Other. Urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome toxic epidermal necrolysis, and alterations in rate or strength of uterine contractions during labor."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - Hypertension, hypotension, circulatory depression, tachycardia, syncope. Respiratory - Rarely, respiratory depression. Acute CNS Manifestations - Hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion . Other CNS Effects - Grand mal convulsions, increase in intracranial pressure, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, and depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic - Sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Gastrointestinal - Nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, anorexia, dry mouth, biliary tract spasm, and rarely abdominal distress. Allergic - Edema of the face; anaphylactic shock; dermatitis, including pruritus; flushed skin, including plethora; infrequently rash, and rarely urticaria. Ophthalmic - Visual blurring and focusing difficulty, miosis. Hematologic - Depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), with rare cases of agranulocytosis, which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Dependence and Withdrawal Symptoms - (See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Sections). Other - Urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome toxic epidermal necrolysis, and alterations in rate or strength of uterine contractions during labor. T o report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or F D A at 1-800-FDA-1088 or w ww.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Hypotension, tachycardia, syncope. Respiratory: Rarely, respiratory depression. Acute CNS Manifestations: Patients receiving therapeutic doses of pentazocine have experienced hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion which have cleared spontaneously within a period of hours. The mechanism of this reaction is not known. Such patients should be closely observed and vital signs checked. If the drug is reinstituted it should be done with caution since these acute CNS manifestations may recur. Other CNS Effects: Dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, visual blurring and focusing difficulty, depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic: Sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, anorexia, rarely abdominal distress. Allergic: Edema of the face; dermatitis, including pruritus; flushed skin, including plethora; infrequently rash, and rarely urticaria. Ophthalmic: Visual blurring and focusing difficulty. Hematologic: Depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Other: Headache, chills, insomnia, weakness, urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets has been insufficient to define all possible adverse reactions with this combination. However, reactions reported after oral administration of pentazocine hydrochloride in 50 mg dosage include gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, infrequently constipation; and rarely abdominal distress, anorexia, diarrhea. CNS effects: dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, visual blurring and focusing difficulty, depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic: sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Allergic: infrequently rash; and rarely urticaria, edema of the face. Cardiovascular: infrequently decrease in blood pressure, tachycardia. Hematologic: rarely depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Other: rarely respiratory depression, urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and in one instance, an apparent anaphylactic reaction has been reported. Numerous clinical studies have shown that acetaminophen, when taken in recommended doses, is relatively free of adverse effects in most age groups, even in the presence of a variety of disease states. A few cases of hypersensitivity to acetaminophen have been reported, as manifested by skin rashes, thrombocytopenic purpura, rarely hemolytic anemia and agranulocytosis. Occasional individuals respond to ordinary doses with nausea and vomiting and diarrhea."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets have been insufficient to define all possible adverse reactions with this combination. However, reactions reported after oral administration of pentazocine hydrochloride in 50 mg dosage include the following: Cardiovascular: hypertension, hypotension, circulatory depression, tachycardia. Respiratory: rarely respiratory depression, Acute CNS Manifestations: Hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion Other CNS effects: grand mal convulsions, increase in intracranial pressure, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, and depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic: sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, constipation; diarrhea, anorexia, dry mouth, Biliary tract spasm, and rarely abdominal distress. Allergic: edema of the face, anaphylactic shock, dermatitis including pruritus, flushed skin including plethora, infrequently rash; and rarely urticaria. Ophthalmic: visual blurring and focusing difficulty, miosis. Hematologic: depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes) with rare cases of agranulocytosis, which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Dependence and Withdrawal Symptoms: (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS, and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Sections). Other: urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and alterations in rate or strength of uterine contractions during labor. A few cases of hypersensitivity to acetaminophen have been reported, as manifested by anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, thrombocytopenic purpura, skin rashes, and rarely hemolytic anemia and agranulocytosis. Occasionally individuals respond to ordinary doses with nausea and vomiting and diarrhea."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Cardiovascular. Hypertension, hypotension, circulatory depression, tachycardia, syncope. Respiratory. Rarely, respiratory depression. Acute CNS Manifestations. Hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion . Other CNS Effects. Grand mal convulsions, increase in intracranial pressure, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, and depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic. Sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Gastrointestinal. Nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea, anorexia, dry mouth, biliary tract spasm, and rarely abdominal distress. Allergic. Edema of the face; anaphylactic shock; dermatitis, including pruritus; flushed skin, including plethora; infrequently rash, and rarely urticaria. Ophthalmic. Visual blurring and focusing difficulty, miosis. Hematologic. Depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), with rare cases of agranulocytosis, which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Dependence and Withdrawal Symptoms. (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS, and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Sections). Other. Urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome toxic epidermal necrolysis, and alterations in rate or strength of uterine contractions during labor."$$
"Adverse Reactions The most commonly occurring reactions are: nausea, dizziness or lightheadedness, vomiting, euphoria. Dermatologic Reactions: Soft tissue induration, nodules, and cutaneous depression can occur at injection sites. Ulceration (sloughing) and severe sclerosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissues (and, rarely, underlying muscle) have been reported after multiple doses. Other reported dermatologic reactions include diaphoresis, sting on injection, flushed skin including plethora, dermatitis including pruritus. Infrequently occurring reactions are\\342\\200\\224respiratory: respiratory depression, dyspnea, transient apnea in a small number of newborn infants whose mothers received TALWIN during labor; cardiovascular: circulatory depression, shock, hypertension; CNS effects: dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, visual blurring and focusing difficulty, depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus; gastrointestinal: constipation, dry mouth; other: urinary retention, headache, paresthesia, alterations in rate or strength of uterine contractions during labor. Rarely reported reactions include\\342\\200\\224neuromuscular and psychiatric: muscle tremor, insomnia, disorientation, hallucinations; gastrointestinal: taste alteration, diarrhea and cramps; ophthalmic: blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia, miosis; hematologic: depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia; other: tachycardia, weakness or faintness, chills; allergic reactions including edema of the face, toxic epidermal necrolysis. (See Acute CNS Manifestations and Drug Dependence under WARNINGS.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly occurring reactions are: nausea, dizziness or lightheadedness, vomiting, euphoria. Dermatologic Reactions: Soft tissue induration, nodules, and cutaneous depression can occur at injection sites. Ulceration (sloughing) and severe sclerosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissues (and, rarely, underlying muscle) have been reported after multiple doses. Other reported dermatologic reactions include diaphoresis, sting on injection, flushed skin including plethora, dermatitis including pruritus. Infrequently occurring reactions are\\342\\200\\224 respiratory : respiratory depression, dyspnea, transient apnea in a small number of newborn infants whose mothers received TALWIN during labor; cardiovascular : circulatory depression, shock, hypertension; CNS effects : dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, visual blurring and focusing difficulty, depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus; gastrointestinal : constipation, dry mouth; other : urinary retention, headache, paresthesia, alterations in rate or strength of uterine contractions during labor. Rarely reported reactions include\\342\\200\\224 neuromuscular and psychiatric : muscle tremor, insomnia, disorientation, hallucinations; gastrointestinal : taste alteration, diarrhea and cramps; ophthalmic : blurred vision, nystagmus, diplopia, miosis; hematologic : depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia; other : tachycardia, weakness or faintness, chills; allergic reactions including edema of the face, toxic epidermal necrolysis. (See Acute CNS Manifestations and Drug Dependence under WARNINGS .)"$$
"Drug Interactions CNS Depressants Other central nervous system (CNS) depressants including sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, antiemetics, phenothiazines, or other tranquilizers or alcohol increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma. Use morphine sulfate with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking these agents."$$
"Drug Interactions CNS Depressants Other central nervous system (CNS) depressants including sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, antiemetics, phenothiazines, or other tranquilizers or alcohol increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma. Use morphine sulfate with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking these agents. Opioid Agonist Analgesics Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets can antagonize the effects of a pure opioid agonist analgesic and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets may cause CNS excitation and hypertension through their respective effects on catecholamines. Caution should therefore be observed in administering pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets to patients who are currently receiving MAOIs or who have received them within the preceding 14 days. Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Tobacco Smoking tobacco could enhance the metabolic clearance rate of pentazocine reducing the clinical effectiveness of a standard dose of pentazocine."$$
"Drug Interactions CNS Depressants Other central nervous system (CNS) depressants including sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, antiemetics, phenothiazines, or other tranquilizers or alcohol increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma. Use morphine sulfate with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking these agents. Opioid Agonist Analgesics Pentazocine hydrochloride and naloxone hydrochloride can antagonize the effects of a pure opioid agonist analgesic and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with pentazocine hydrochloride and naloxone hydrochloride may cause CNS excitation and hypertension through their respective effects on catecholamines. Caution should therefore be observed in administering pentazocine hydrochloride and naloxone hydrochloride to patients who are currently receiving MAOIs or who have received them within the preceding 14 days. Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Tobacco Smoking tobacco could enhance the metabolic clearance rate of pentazocine reducing the clinical effectiveness of a standard dose of pentazocine."$$
"Drug Interactions Pentazocine is a mild narcotic antagonist. Some patients previously given narcotics, including methadone for the daily treatment of narcotic dependence, have experienced withdrawal symptoms after receiving pentazocine."$$
"Drug Interactions Usage with Alcohol: See WARNINGS."$$
"Drug Interactions. Usage with Alcohol: See WARNINGS."$$
"WARNINGS Drug Dependence. Pentazocine can cause a physical and psychological dependence. (See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE.) Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure. As in the case of other potent analgesics, the potential of pentazocine for elevating cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be attributed to CO2 retention due to the respiratory depressant effects of the drug. These effects may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions, or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Furthermore, pentazocine can produce effects which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries. In such patients, pentazocine must be used with extreme caution and only if its use is deemed essential. Usage with Alcohol. Due to the potential for increased CNS depressant effects, alcohol should be used with caution in patients who are currently receiving pentazocine. Patients Receiving Narcotics. Pentazocine is a mild narcotic antagonist. Some patients previously given narcotics, including methadone for the daily treatment of narcotic dependence, have experienced withdrawal symptoms after receiving pentazocine. Certain Respiratory Conditions. Although respiratory depression has rarely been reported after oral administration of pentazocine, the drug should be administered with caution to patients with respiratory depression from any cause, severely limited respiratory reserve, severe bronchial asthma, and other obstructive respiratory conditions, or cyanosis. Acute CNS Manifestations. Patients receiving therapeutic doses of pentazocine have experienced hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion which have cleared spontaneously within a period of hours. The mechanism of this reaction is not known. Such patients should be very closely observed and vital signs checked. If the drug is reinstituted, it should be done with caution since these acute CNS manifestations may recur. PRECAUTIONS CNS EffectCaution should be used when pentazocine is administered to patients prone to seizures; seizures have occurred in a few such patients in association with the use of pentazocine though no cause and effect relationship has been established. Impaired Renal or Hepatic FunctionDecreased metabolism of pentazocine by the liver in extensive liver disease may predispose to accentuation of side effects. Although laboratory tests have not indicated that pentazocine causes or increases renal or hepatic impairment, the drug should be administered with caution to patients with such impairment. In prescribing pentazocine for long-term use, the physician should take precautions to avoid increases in doses by the patient. Biliary SurgeryNarcotic drug products are generally considered to elevate biliary tract pressure for varying periods following their administration. Some evidence suggests that pentazocine may differ from other marketed narcotics in this respect (i.e., it causes little or no elevation in biliary tract pressures). The clinical significance of these findings, however, is not yet known."$$
