
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets has been insufficient to define all possible adverse reactions with this combination. However, reactions reported after oral administration of pentazocine hydrochloride in 50 mg dosage include gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, infrequently constipation; and rarely abdominal distress, anorexia, diarrhea. CNS effects: dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, visual blurring and focusing difficulty, depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic: sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Allergic: infrequently rash; and rarely urticaria, edema of the face. Cardiovascular: infrequently decrease in blood pressure, tachycardia. Hematologic: rarely depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes), which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Other: rarely respiratory depression, urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and in one instance, an apparent anaphylactic reaction has been reported. Numerous clinical studies have shown that acetaminophen, when taken in recommended doses, is relatively free of adverse effects in most age groups, even in the presence of a variety of disease states. A few cases of hypersensitivity to acetaminophen have been reported, as manifested by skin rashes, thrombocytopenic purpura, rarely hemolytic anemia and agranulocytosis. Occasional individuals respond to ordinary doses with nausea and vomiting and diarrhea."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets have been insufficient to define all possible adverse reactions with this combination. However, reactions reported after oral administration of pentazocine hydrochloride in 50 mg dosage include the following: Cardiovascular: hypertension, hypotension, circulatory depression, tachycardia. Respiratory: rarely respiratory depression, Acute CNS Manifestations: Hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion Other CNS effects: grand mal convulsions, increase in intracranial pressure, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, disorientation; infrequently weakness, disturbed dreams, insomnia, syncope, and depression; and rarely tremor, irritability, excitement, tinnitus. Autonomic: sweating; infrequently flushing; and rarely chills. Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, constipation; diarrhea, anorexia, dry mouth, Biliary tract spasm, and rarely abdominal distress. Allergic: edema of the face, anaphylactic shock, dermatitis including pruritus, flushed skin including plethora, infrequently rash; and rarely urticaria. Ophthalmic: visual blurring and focusing difficulty, miosis. Hematologic: depression of white blood cells (especially granulocytes) with rare cases of agranulocytosis, which is usually reversible, moderate transient eosinophilia. Dependence and Withdrawal Symptoms: (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS, and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Sections). Other: urinary retention, paresthesia, serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and alterations in rate or strength of uterine contractions during labor. A few cases of hypersensitivity to acetaminophen have been reported, as manifested by anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, thrombocytopenic purpura, skin rashes, and rarely hemolytic anemia and agranulocytosis. Occasionally individuals respond to ordinary doses with nausea and vomiting and diarrhea."$$
"Drug Interactions CNS Depressants Other central nervous system (CNS) depressants including sedatives, hypnotics, general anesthetics, antiemetics, phenothiazines, or other tranquilizers or alcohol increases the risk of respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, or coma. Use morphine sulfate with caution and in reduced dosages in patients taking these agents. Opioid Agonist Analgesics Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets can antagonize the effects of a pure opioid agonist analgesic and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets may cause CNS excitation and hypertension through their respective effects on catecholamines. Caution should therefore be observed in administering pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets to patients who are currently receiving MAOIs or who have received them within the preceding 14 days. Anticholinergics Anticholinergics or other medications with anticholinergic activity when used concurrently with opioid analgesics may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Tobacco Smoking tobacco could enhance the metabolic clearance rate of pentazocine reducing the clinical effectiveness of a standard dose of pentazocine."$$
"Drug Interactions Pentazocine is a mild narcotic antagonist. Some patients previously given narcotics, including methadone for the daily treatment of narcotic dependence, have experienced withdrawal symptoms after receiving pentazocine."$$
