"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Anaphylactoid reactions, including angioedema (head, neck, or intestinal) (5.2). Myocardial infarction: Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of PRESTALIA, particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease (5.3). Assess for hypotension and hyperkalemia (5.4, 5.5). Monitor renal function during therapy (5.7). 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue PRESTALIA as soon as possible [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin. Patients taking ACE inhibitors (including the one in PRESTALIA) may, therefore, be subject to a variety of bradykinin- or prostaglandin-mediated adverse reactions, some of them serious. Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have a higher incidence of angioedema compared with non-blacks. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis, and larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors (0.1% of patients treated with perindopril in U.S. clinical trials). Angioedema associated with involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx may be fatal. In such cases, discontinue perindopril treatment immediately and observe until the swelling disappears. When involvement of the tongue, glottis, or larynx appears likely to cause airway obstruction, administer appropriate therapy, such as subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 to 0.5 mL), promptly. Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor (e.g. temsirolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. [see Drug Interaction (7)] Intestinal Angioedema: Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. These patients presented with abdominal pain (with or without nausea or vomiting), and the angioedema was diagnosed by imaging studies such as abdominal CT or ultrasound, or at surgery. In some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema, and C-1 esterase levels were normal. Symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor. Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain. 5.3 Increased Angina and/or Myocardial Infarction Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of PRESTALIA, particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease. 5.4 Hypotension PRESTALIA can cause symptomatic hypotension. Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume- or salt-depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy, dietary salt restriction, dialysis, diarrhea, or vomiting. In patients at risk of excessive hypotension, start PRESTALIA therapy under close medical supervision. Follow patients closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of PRESTALIA is increased or a diuretic is added or its dose increased. If excessive hypotension occurs, immediately place patient in a supine position and, if necessary, treat patient with an intravenous infusion of physiological saline. PRESTALIA treatment can usually be continued following restoration of volume and blood pressure. Patients with severe aortic stenosis may be more likely to experience symptomatic hypotension. Because of the gradual onset of action, acute hypotension is unlikely. Surgery/Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension, PRESTALIA may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release. If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism, it can be corrected by volume expansion. 5.5 Hyperkalemia Elevations of serum potassium have been observed in some patients treated with ACE inhibitors, including PRESTALIA. Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, and the concomitant use of agents such as potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, and/or potassium-containing salt substitutes [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Monitor serum potassium periodically in patients receiving PRESTALIA. 5.6 Cough Presumably because of the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin, persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors, generally resolving after discontinuation of therapy. Consider ACE inhibitor-induced cough in the differential diagnosis of cough. 5.7 Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with PRESTALIA. Changes in renal function, including acute renal failure, can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin system. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, severe congestive heart failure, post-myocardial infarction or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on PRESTALIA. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on PRESTALIA."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions were edema (7.2%), cough (3.2%), headache (2.5%), and dizziness (2.5%) (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact SYMPLMED LLC at 1-888-552-9769 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In an active-controlled 6-week trial, the safety of the maximum dose of PRESTALIA (14/10 mg) was evaluated in 279 patients with hypertension and compared with perindopril erbumine 16 mg and amlodipine 10 mg. Adverse reactions were generally mild and transient in nature. Discontinuations because of adverse events occurred in 3.6% of patients treated with PRESTALIA 14/10 mg compared to 4.3% of patients treated with perindopril erbumine 16 mg and 4.6% of patients treated with amlodipine 10 mg. The most common reason for discontinuation of therapy with PRESTALIA was peripheral edema (1.8%). Common adverse events that occurred in at least 2% of patients treated with PRESTALIA in the 6-week trial are presented in Table 1. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of >=2% in PRESTALIA-Treated Patients PERe = perindopril erbumine; AML = amlodipine besylate Adverse Event PRESTALIA 14/10 mg (N = 279) n (%) PERe 16 mg (N = 278) n (%) AML 10 mg (N = 280) n (%) Edema peripheral 20 (7.2) 1 (0.4) 37 (13.2) Cough 9 (3.2) 8 (2.9) 2 (0.7) Headache 7 (2.5) 8 (2.9) 8 (2.9) Dizziness 7 (2.5) 4 (1.4) 3 (1.1) The overall frequency of adverse reactions was similar between men and women, and black and non-black patients. In black patients, the incidence of peripheral edema was similar in the PRESTALIA 14/10 mg and amlodipine 10 mg arms (3%). Other adverse reactions in the controlled clinical trial with some plausible relationship to PRESTALIA are listed below. Dermatologic: Rash Digestive: Nausea, diarrhea The safety of the lowest dose of PRESTALIA (3.5/2.5 mg) was evaluated in 249 patients with hypertension and compared with placebo and perindopril and amlodipine administered as monotherapies in an 8-week trial. The only emergent adverse event observed in at least 2% of patients treated with PRESTALIA was hyperkalemia (2.4%). Peripheral edema was reported in 1.6% of patients receiving PRESTALIA 3.5/2.5 mg. Monotherapy with perindopril or amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in clinical trials in over 3,000 and 11,000 patients, respectively, as summarized below. Perindopril Perindopril erbumine has been evaluated for safety in approximately 3,400 patients with hypertension in U.S. and foreign clinical trials. The data presented here are based on results from the 1,417 perindopril-treated patients who participated in the U.S. clinical trials. Over 220 of these patients were treated with perindopril for at least one year. In placebo-controlled U.S. clinical trials, the incidence of premature discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events was 6.5% in patients treated with perindopril erbumine and 6.7% in patients treated with placebo. The most common causes were cough, headache, asthenia, and dizziness. Among 1,012 patients in placebo-controlled U.S. trials, the overall frequency of reported adverse events was similar in patients treated with perindopril erbumine and in those treated with placebo (approximately 75% in each group). The only adverse events whose incidence on perindopril erbumine was at least 2% greater than on placebo were cough (12% vs. 4.5%) and back pain (5.8% vs. 3.1%). Dizziness was not reported more frequently in the perindopril group (8.2%) than in the placebo group (8.5%), but its likelihood increased with dose, suggesting a causal relationship with perindopril. Amlodipine Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11,000 patients in U.S. and foreign clinical trials. In controlled clinical trials comparing amlodipine (N=1730) in doses up to 10 mg with placebo (N=1250), discontinuation of amlodipine due to adverse reactions was required in about 1.5% of amlodipine-treated patients and about 1% of placebo-treated patients. The most common side effects were edema, dizziness, flushing, and palpitations. The following events occurred in <1% but >0.1% of patients in controlled clinical trials or under conditions of open trials or marketing experience where a causal relationship is uncertain; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship: Cardiovascular: arrhythmia (including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation), bradycardia, chest pain, peripheral ischemia, syncope, tachycardia, vasculitis. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: hypoesthesia, neuropathy peripheral, paresthesia, tremor, vertigo. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, constipation, dysphagia, diarrhea, flatulence, pancreatitis, vomiting, gingival hyperplasia. General: allergic reaction, asthenia,1 back pain, hot flushes, malaise, pain, rigors, weight gain, weight decrease. Musculoskeletal System: arthralgia, arthrosis, muscle cramps,1 myalgia. Psychiatric: sexual dysfunction (male1 and female), insomnia, nervousness, depression, abnormal dreams, anxiety, depersonalization. Respiratory System: dyspnea,1 epistaxis. Skin and Appendages: angioedema, erythema multiforme, pruritus,1 rash,1 rash erythematous, rash maculopapular. Special Senses: abnormal vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, eye pain, tinnitus. Urinary System: micturition frequency, micturition disorder, nocturia. Autonomic Nervous System: dry mouth, sweating increased. Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia, thirst. Hematopoietic: leukopenia, purpura, thrombocytopenia. 1 These events occurred in less than 1% in placebo-controlled trials, but the incidence of these side effects was between 1% and 2% in all multiple dose studies. Clinical Laboratory Findings Perindopril Hematology: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit occur frequently in hypertensive patients treated with perindopril, but are rarely of clinical importance. In controlled clinical trials, no patient was discontinued from therapy due to the development of anemia. Leukopenia (including neutropenia) was observed in 0.1% of patients in U.S. clinical trials. Liver Function Tests: Elevations in alanine transaminase (ALT; 1.6% perindopril erbumine vs. 0.9% placebo) and aspartate transaminase (AST; 0.5% perindopril erbumine vs. 0.4% placebo) have been observed in placebo-controlled clinical trials. The elevations were generally mild and transient and resolved after discontinuation of therapy. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of the individual components of PRESTALIA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Perindopril: Voluntary reports of adverse events in patients taking perindopril that have been received since market introduction and are of unknown causal relationship to perindopril include: cardiac arrest, eosinophilic pneumonitis, neutropenia/agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, anemia (including hemolytic and aplastic), thrombocytopenia, acute renal failure, nephritis, hepatic failure, jaundice (hepatocellular or cholestatic), symptomatic hyponatremia, bullous pemphigoid, pemphigus, acute pancreatitis, falls, psoriasis, exfoliative dermatitis, and a syndrome that may include: arthralgia/arthritis, vasculitis, serositis, myalgia, fever, rash or other dermatologic manifestations, a positive antinuclear antibody (ANA), leukocytosis, eosinophilia, or an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Amlodipine: The following postmarketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain: palpitations, gynecomastia, jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations (mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis), some requiring hospitalization."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium supplements and potassium-sparing diuretics: risk of hyperkalemia (7). Lithium: increased serum lithium levels; toxicity symptoms (7). Injectable gold: flushing, nausea, vomiting, or hypotension (7). Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7). Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin (7). NSAIDs: risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect (7). Diuretics: increased risk of hypotension, consider dose reduction (7). CYP3A inhibitors: risk of hypotension and edema (7). Prestalia The pharmacokinetics of perindopril and amlodipine are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with PRESTALIA, although studies have been conducted with perindopril and amlodipine. mTOR Inhibitors: Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor (e.g. temsirolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Perindopril Diuretics: Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with PRESTALIA. Provide close medical supervision with the first dose of PRESTALIA, for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for another hour. Perindopril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics. Potassium Supplements and Potassium-Sparing Diuretics: Potassium-sparing diuretics (spironolactone, amiloride, triamterene, and others) or potassium supplements, or other drugs capable of increasing serum potassium (indomethacin, heparin, cyclosporine and others) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If concomitant use of such agents is indicated, the patient's serum potassium should be monitored frequently. Lithium: Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium. When co-administering PRESTALIA and lithium, frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. Use of a diuretic may further increase the risk of lithium toxicity. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDS, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including perindopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving perindopril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effects of ACE inhibitors, including perindopril, may be attenuated by NSAIDS, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. In most patients no benefit has been associated with using two RAS inhibitors concomitantly. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on PRESTALIA and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with PRESTALIA in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with PRESTALIA in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Amlodipine Simvastatin: Co-administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77% increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin administered alone. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily. Cyclosporine: A prospective study in renal transplant patients showed an average 40% increase in trough cyclosporin levels during concomitant treatment with amlodipine. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine is recommended. CYP3A Inhibitors: Co-administration of the moderate CYP3A inhibitor diltiazem increases the exposure to amlodipine by 60%. Co-administered erythromycin, also a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, does not impact the exposure to amlodipine. Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole) may increase the plasma concentrations of the CYP3A substrate amlodipine to a greater extent. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with moderate or strong CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment. CYP3A Inducers: No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be monitored when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inducers."$$
