
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Cardiovascular: Palpitations, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, ischemic events. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs, have been reported. However, no case of this valvulopathy has been reported when phendimetrazine tartrate has been used alone. Central Nervous System: Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal: Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure. Central Nervous System: Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal: Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Cardiovascular: Palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure. Central Nervous System: Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal: Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, ischemic events. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs, have been reported. However, no case of this valvulopathy has been reported when phendimetrazine tartrate has been used alone. Central Nervous System: Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal: Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, ischemic events. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs, have been reported. However, no case of this valvulopathy have been reported when phendimetrazine tartrate has been used alone. Central Nervous System: Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal: Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, ischemic events. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs, have been reported. However, no cases of this valvulopathy have been reported when phendimetrazine tartrate has been used alone. Central Nervous System: Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal: Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular Palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs, have been reported. However, no case of this valvulopathy has been reported when phendimetrazine tartrate has been used alone. Central Nervous System Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described, or described in greater detail, in other sections: - Primary pulmonary hypertension (see Warnings) - Valvular heart disease (see Warnings) -Effect on the ability to engage in potentially hazardous tasks (see Warnings) -Withdrawal effects following prolonged high dosage administration (see Drug Abuse and Dependence) The following adverse reactions to phendimetrazine have been identified: Cardiovascular Primary pulmonary hypertension and/or regurgitant cardiac valvular disease, palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, ischemic events. Central Nervous System Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gastrointestinal Dryness of the mouth, nausea, stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation, Genitourinary Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"Cardiovas cular: Palpitations, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, ischemic events. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, both independently and especially when used in combination with other anorectic drugs, have been reported. However, no case of this valvulopathy has been reported when phendimetrazine tartrate has been used alone. Central Nervous Sys tem: Overstimulation, restlessness, insomnia, agitation, flushing, tremor, sweating, dizziness, headache, psychotic state, blurring of vision. Gas trointes tinal: Dryness of the mouth, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, stomach pain. Genitourinary: Urinary frequency, dysuria, changes in libido."$$
"Drug Interactions Efficacy of phendimetrazine tartrate with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems."$$
"Drug Interactions Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of phendimetrazine tartrate is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis. Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phendimetrazine tartrate may result in an adverse drug reaction. Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered Adrenergic Neuron Blocking Drugs phendimetrazine tartrate may decrease the hypotensive effect of adrenergic neuron blocking drugs."$$
"Drug Interactions Safe use in pregnancy has not been established. Until more information is available, phendimetrazine tartrate should not be taken by women who are or may become pregnant unless, in the opinion of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards"$$
"Efficacy of phendimetrazine tartrate with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems. Carcinogenes is , Mutagenes is , Impairment of Fertility: Studies with Phendimetrazine Tartrate have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential, mutagenic potential or effects on fertility. Pregnancy: Pregnancy Category C: Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with phendimetrazine tartrate. It is also not known whether phendimetrazine tartrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Us age in Pregnancy: Safe use in pregnancy has not been established. Until more information is available, phendimetrazine tartrate should not be taken by women who are or may become pregnant unless, in the opinion of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards. Nurs ing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, phendimetrazine tartrate should not be taken by women who are nursing unless, in the opinion of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards. Pediatric Us e: Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established."$$
"Interactions Drug Interactions Efficacy of phendimetrazine tartrate with other anorectic agents has not been studied and the combined use may have the potential for serious cardiac problems. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions",$$
