"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Not for injection. Topical ophthalmic use only [5.1] Reports of serious cardiovascular reactions, some fatal, with phenylephrine hydrochloride 10% solution. Monitor blood pressure in patients with cardiovascular disease [5.2] Significant elevations in blood pressure have been reported. Caution in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age, and in patients with elevated blood pressure [5.3]. Rebound miosis has been reported one day after instillation [5.4] 5.1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution, 2.5% and 10% is not indicated for injection. 5.2 Cardiovascular Reactions There have been reports of serious cardiovascular reactions, including ventricular arrhythmias and myocardial infarctions, in patients using phenylephrine 10%. These episodes, some fatal, have usually occurred in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular diseases. Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution, USP 2.5% should be used in these patients. 5.3 Elevation in Blood Pressure A significant elevation in blood pressure is not common but has been reported following conjunctival instillation of recommended doses of phenylephrine 10%. The risk is less with phenylephrine 2.5%. Caution should be exercised with the use of phenylephrine 10% in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age and patients with hyperthyroidism, or cardiovascular disease. The post-treatment blood pressure of patients with cardiac and endocrine diseases and any patients who develop symptoms should be carefully monitored. 5.4 Rebound Miosis Rebound miosis has been reported one day after receiving phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution, and re instillation of the drug produced a lesser mydriatic effect."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Not for injection: Topical ophthalmic use only (5.1) Serious cardiovascular reactions with 10% strength: Reactions have included ventricular arrhythmias and some have been fatal. Monitor blood pressure in patients with cardiovascular disease (5.2). Significant elevations in blood pressure: Caution in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age, and in patients with cardiovascular disease or hyperthyroidism. In patients at high risk, monitor blood pressure post treatment (5.3). Rebound miosis: Reported one day after instillation (5.4) 5.1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2.5% and 10% is not indicated for injection. 5.2 Cardiovascular Reactions There have been reports of serious cardiovascular reactions, including ventricular arrhythmias and myocardial infarctions, in patients using phenylephrine 10%. These episodes, some fatal, have usually occurred in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular diseases. Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution, USP 2.5% should be used in these patients. 5.3 Elevation of Blood Pressure A significant elevation in blood pressure is not common but has been reported following conjunctival instillation of recommended doses of phenylephrine 10%. The risk is less with phenylephrine 2.5%. Caution should be exercised with the use of phenylephrine 10% in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age and patients with hyperthyroidism, or cardiovascular disease. The post-treatment blood pressure of patients with cardiac and endocrine diseases and any patients who develop symptoms should be carefully monitored. 5.4 Rebound Miosis Rebound miosis has been reported one day after receiving phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution, and re-instillation of the drug produced a lesser mydriatic effect."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Systemic exposure of phenylephrine may cause elevations in blood pressure. ( 5.1) 5.1 Elevated Blood Pressure Systemic exposure of phenylephrine can cause elevations in blood pressure. 5.2 Cross-Sensitivity or Hypersensitivity There is the potential for cross-sensitivity to acetylsalicylic acid, phenylacetic acid derivatives, and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs). There have been reports of bronchospasm or exacerbation of asthma associated with the use of ketorolac in patients who either have a known hypersensitivity to aspirin/NSAIDs or a past medical history of asthma. Therefore, use Omidria with caution in individuals who have previously exhibited sensitivities to these drugs."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: - Cardiac Disease [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] - Elevation in Blood Pressure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ocular adverse reactions include eye pain and stinging on instillation, temporary blurred vision and photophobia [6.1]. Cardiovascular adverse reactions include increase in blood pressure, syncope, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage [6.2]. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Paragon BioTeck, Inc. at 1-888-424-1192 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Ocular Adverse Reactions Eye pain and stinging on instillation, temporary blurred vision and photophobia, and conjunctival sensitization may occur. 6.2 Systemic Adverse Reactions A marked increase in blood pressure has been reported particularly, but not limited to low weight premature neonates, infants and hypertensive patients. Cardiovascular reactions which have occurred primarily in hypertensive patients following topical ocular use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10% solution include marked increase in blood pressure, syncope, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2 and 5.3)]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular Effects [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )] Elevation in Blood Pressure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3 )] The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ocular adverse reactions include eye pain and stinging on instillation, temporary blurred vision, and photophobia (6.1) Cardiovascular adverse reactions include increase in blood pressure, syncope, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Akorn, Inc. at 1-800-932-5676 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Ocular Adverse Reactions Eye pain and stinging on instillation, temporary blurred vision and photophobia, and conjunctival sensitization may occur. 6.2 Systemic Adverse Reactions A marked increase in blood pressure has been reported particularly, but not limited to low weight premature neonates, infants and hypertensive patients. Cardiovascular effects which have been seen primarily in hypertensive patients following topical ocular use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10% include marked increase in blood pressure, syncope, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2 and 5.3 )]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reported adverse reactions at 2-24% are eye irritation, posterior capsule opacification, increased intraocular pressure, and anterior chamber inflammation. ( 6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Omeros Corporation at 1-844-OMEROS1 or www.omidria.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Table 1 shows frequently reported ocular adverse reactions with an incidence of >= 2% of subjects as seen in the combined clinical trial results from three randomized, placebo-controlled studies. Table 1: Ocular Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Subjects MedDRA Preferred Term Placebo (N=462) Omidria (N=459) n (%) n (%) Ocular Events Anterior Chamber Inflammation 102 (22%) 111 (24%) Intraocular Pressure Increased 15 (3%) 20 (4%) Posterior Capsule Opacification 16 (4%) 18 (4%) Eye Irritation 6 (1%) 9 (2%) Foreign Body Sensation in Eyes 11 (2%) 8 (2%)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Atropine-like drugs: May exaggerate the adrenergic pressor response (7.1) Potent inhalation anesthetic agents: May potentiate cardiovascular depressant effects (7.1) 7.1 Agents That May Exaggerate Pressor Responses Concomitant use of phenylephrine and atropine may enhance the pressor effects and induce tachycardia in some patients. Phenylephrine may potentiate the cardiovascular depressant effects of some inhalation anesthetic agents."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS May exaggerate the adrenergic pressor response in patients taking atropine-like drugs [7.1] May potentiate the cardiovascular depressant effects of potent inhalation anesthetic agents [7.1] 7.1 Agents That May Exaggerate Pressor Responses Concomitant use of phenylephrine and atropine may enhance the pressor effects and induce tachycardia in some patients. Phenylephrine may potentiate the cardiovascular depressant effects of some inhalation anesthetic agents."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS A marked increase in blood pressure has been reported in low-weight premature neonates, infants, and adult patients with idiopathic orthostatic hypotension. Cardiovascular reactions which have occurred primarily in elderly patients include marked increase in blood pressure, syncope, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, arrhythmia, and fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage.2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: A marked increase in blood pressure has been reported in low-weight premature neonates, infants and adult patients with idiopathic orthostatic hypotension. Cardiovascular reactions which have occurred primarily in elderly patients include marked increase in blood pressure, syncope, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, arrhythmia, and fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage.2 Other reactions include bradycardia, headache, and excitability."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular: The following ocular adverse experiences have been associated with the use of CYCLOMYDRIL: increased intraocular pressure, burning/irritation upon instillation, photophobia, blurred vision and superficial punctate keratitis. Non-ocular: Use of cyclopentolate hydrochloride has been associated with psychotic reactions and behavioral disturbances in children. These disturbances include ataxia, incoherent speech, restlessness, hallucinations, hyperactivity, seizures, disorientation as to time and place, and failure to recognize people. This drug produces reactions similar to those of other adrenergic and anticholinergic drugs; however, the central nervous system manifestations as noted above are most common. Other manifestations of adrenergic and anticholinergic topical ophthalmic drugs include tachycardia, hyperpyrexia, hypertension, vasodilation, urinary retention, diminished gastrointestinal motility and decreased secretion in salivary and sweat glands, pharynx, bronchi and nasal passages. Severe manifestations of toxicity include coma, medullary paralysis and death."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Phenylephrine is a sympathomimetic drug related to epinephrine and ephedrine, and that even though it is rare, it may produce such reactions as tremor, pallor, perspiration, abnormal palpitation or collapse."$$
"Drug Interaction: As with all other adrenergic drugs, when phenylephrine hydrochloride 2.5 percent ophthalmic solution is administered simultaneously with, or up to 21 days after, administration of monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, careful supervision and adjustment of dosages are required since exaggerated adrenerglc effects may occur. The pressor response of adrenergic agents may also be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants, propranolol, reserpine, guanethidine, methyldopa, and atropine-like drugs."$$
"Drug Interaction: As with all other adrenergic drugs, when Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is administered simultaneously with, or up to 21 days after, administration of monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, careful supervision and adjustment of dosages are required since exaggerated adrenergic effects may occur. The pressor response of adrenergic agents may also be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants, propranolol, reserpine, guanethidine, methyldopa, and atropine-like drugs. Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solutions may potentiate the cardiovascular depressant effects of potent inhalation anesthetic agents."$$
"Drug Interactions Cyclopentolate may interfere with the ocular anti-hypertensive action of carbachol, pilocarpine, or ophthalmic cholinesterase inhibitors."$$
