"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Clinical Worsening/Suicide Risk: Monitor for clinical worsening, suicidality and unusual change in behavior, especially, during the initial few months of therapy or at times of dose changes (5.1). Serotonin Syndrome: Serotonin syndrome has been reported with SSRIs and SNRIs, including escitalopram, both when taken alone, but especially when coadministered with other serotonergic agents (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone and St. John's Wort). If such symptoms occur, discontinue escitalopram and initiate supportive treatment. If concomitant use of escitalopram with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (5.2). Discontinuation of Treatment with escitalopram tablets: A gradual reduction in dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible (5.3). Seizures: Prescribe with care in patients with a history of seizure (5.4). Activation of Mania/Hypomania: Use cautiously in patients with a history of mania (5.5). Hyponatremia: Can occur in association with SIADH (5.6). Abnormal Bleeding: Use caution in concomitant use with NSAIDs, aspirin, warfarin or other drugs that affect coagulation (5.7). Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance: Use caution when operating machinery (5.8). Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness: Use caution in patients with diseases or conditions that produce altered metabolism or hemodynamic responses (5.9). 5.1 Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. TABLE 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18-24 5 additional cases Deceases Compared to Placebo 25-64 1 fewer case >=65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers [see also Patient Counseling Information (17.1) ]. Prescriptions for escitalopram should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that escitalopram is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. 5.2 Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including escitalopram, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination) seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of escitalopram with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Escitalopram should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking escitalopram. Escitalopram should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI [see Contraindications (4.1) and Dosage and Administration (2.5 and 2.6) ]. If concomitant use of escitalopram with other serotonergic drugs including, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan and St. John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with escitalopram and any concomitant serotonergic agents, should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. 5.3 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets During marketing of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors), there have been spontaneous reports of adverse events occurring upon discontinuation of these drugs, particularly when abrupt, including the following: dysphoric mood, irritability, agitation, dizziness, sensory disturbances (e.g., paresthesias such as electric shock sensations), anxiety, confusion, headache, lethargy, emotional lability, insomnia, and hypomania. While these events are generally self-limiting, there have been reports of serious discontinuation symptoms. Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment with escitalopram tablets. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. 5.4 Seizures Although anticonvulsant effects of racemic citalopram have been observed in animal studies, escitalopram has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder. These patients were excluded from clinical studies during the product's premarketing testing. In clinical trials of escitalopram, cases of convulsion have been reported in association with escitalopram treatment. Like other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder, escitalopram should be introduced with care in patients with a history of seizure disorder. 5.5 Activation of Mania/Hypomania In placebo-controlled trials of escitalopram in major depressive disorder, activation of mania/hypomania was reported in one (0.1%) of 715 patients treated with escitalopram and in none of the 592 patients treated with placebo. One additional case of hypomania has been reported in association with escitalopram treatment. Activation of mania/hypomania has also been reported in a small proportion of patients with major affective disorders treated with racemic citalopram and other marketed drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder. As with all drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder, escitalopram should be used cautiously in patients with a history of mania. 5.6 Hyponatremia Hyponatremia may occur as a result of treatment with SSRIs and SNRIs, including escitalopram. In many cases, this hyponatremia appears to be the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), and was reversible when escitalopram was discontinued. Cases with serum sodium lower than 110 mmol/L have been reported. Elderly patients may be at greater risk of developing hyponatremia with SSRIs and SNRIs. Also, patients taking diuretics or who are otherwise volume depleted may be at greater risk [see Geriatric Use (8.5) ]. Discontinuation of escitalopram should be considered in patients with symptomatic hyponatremia and appropriate medical intervention should be instituted. Signs and symptoms of hyponatremia include headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness, which may lead to falls. Signs and symptoms associated with more severe and/or acute cases have included hallucination, syncope, seizure, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. 5.7 Abnormal Bleeding SSRIs and SNRIs, including escitalopram, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Concomitant use of aspirin, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, warfarin, and other anticoagulants may add to the risk. Case reports and epidemiological studies (case-control and cohort design) have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of gastrointestinal bleeding. Bleeding events related to SSRIs and SNRIs use have ranged from ecchymoses, hematomas, epistaxis, and petechiae to life-threatening hemorrhages. Patients should be cautioned about the risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of escitalopram and NSAIDs, aspirin, or other drugs that affect coagulation. 5.8 Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance In a study in normal volunteers, escitalopram 10 mg/day did not produce impairment of intellectual function or psychomotor performance. Because any psychoactive drug may impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills, however, patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery, including automobiles, until they are reasonably certain that escitalopram therapy does not affect their ability to engage in such activities. 5.9 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with escitalopram in patients with certain concomitant systemic illnesses is limited. Caution is advisable in using escitalopram in patients with diseases or conditions that produce altered metabolism or hemodynamic responses. Escitalopram has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were generally excluded from clinical studies during the product's premarketing testing. In subjects with hepatic impairment, clearance of racemic citalopram was decreased and plasma concentrations were increased. The recommended dose of escitalopram in hepatically impaired patients is 10 mg/day [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Because escitalopram is extensively metabolized, excretion of unchanged drug in urine is a minor route of elimination. Until adequate numbers of patients with severe renal impairment have been evaluated during chronic treatment with escitalopram, however, it should be used with caution in such patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Taper doses gradually for withdrawal after chronic use. (5.1) Infections: Increased susceptibility to new infection and increased risk of exacerbation, dissemination, or reactivation of latent infection. Signs and symptoms of infection may be masked. (5.2) Elevated blood pressure, salt and water retention and hypokalemia: Monitor blood pressure and sodium, potassium serum levels. (5.3) GI perforation: increased risk in patients with certain GI disorders. Signs and symptoms may be masked. (5.4) Behavioral and mood disturbances: May include euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, severe depression, and psychosis. Existing conditions may be aggravated. (5.5) Decreases in bone density: Monitor bone density in patients receiving long term corticosteroid therapy. (5.6) Ophthalmic effects: May include cataracts, infections and glaucoma. Monitor intraocular pressure if corticosteroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks. (5.7) Live or live attenuated vaccines: Do not administer to patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. ( 5. 8) Negative effects on growth and development: Monitor pediatric patients on long-term corticosteroid therapy. (5.9) Use in pregnancy: Fetal harm can occur with first trimester use. Apprise women of potential harm to the fetus. (5.10) 5.1 Alterations in Endocrine Function Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, and hyperglycemia. Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired, salt and/or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently. Mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance in infancy. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. 5.2 Increased Risks Related to Infections Corticosteroids may increase the risks related to infections with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic infections. The degree to which the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration correlates with the specific risks of infection is not well characterized, however, with increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and may reduce resistance to new infections. Corticosteroids may exacerbate infections and increase risk of disseminated infection. The use of Orapred in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in non-immune children or adults on corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions. Corticosteroids may increase risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infection. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Corticosteroids may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. 5.3 Alterations in Cardiovascular/Renal Function Corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium and calcium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. These agents should be used with caution in patients with hypertension, congestive heart failure, or renal insufficiency. Literature reports suggest an association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with caution in these patients. 5.4 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal (GI) perforation in patients with certain GI disorders. Signs of GI perforation, such as peritoneal irritation, may be masked in patients receiving corticosteroids. Corticosteroids should be used with caution if there is a probability of impending perforation, abscess or other pyogenic infections; diverticulitis; fresh intestinal anastomoses; and active or latent peptic ulcer. 5.5 Behavioral and Mood Disturbances Corticosteroid use may be associated with central nervous system effects ranging from euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, and severe depression, to frank psychotic manifestations. Also, existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids. 5.6 Decrease in Bone Density Corticosteroids decrease bone formation and increase bone resorption both through their effect on calcium regulation (i.e., decreasing absorption and increasing excretion) and inhibition of osteoblast function. This, together with a decrease in the protein matrix of the bone secondary to an increase in protein catabolism, and reduced sex hormone production, may lead to inhibition of bone growth in children and adolescents and the development of osteoporosis at any age. Special consideration should be given to patients at increased risk of osteoporosis (e.g., postmenopausal women) before initiating corticosteroid therapy and bone density should be monitored in patients on long term corticosteroid therapy. 5.7 Ophthalmic Effects Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Intraocular pressure may become elevated in some individuals. If steroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks, intraocular pressure should be monitored. Patients with Ocular Herpes Simplex Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of possible corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. 5.8 Vaccination Administration of live or live attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered; however, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. While on corticosteroid therapy, patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients who are on corticosteroids, especially on high dose, because of possible hazards of neurological complications and a lack of antibody response. 5.9 Effect on Growth and Development Long-term use of corticosteroids can have negative effects on growth and development in children. Growth and development of pediatric patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should be carefully monitored. 5.10 Use in Pregnancy Prednisolone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Human and animal studies suggest that use of corticosteroids during the first trimester of pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of orofacial clefts, intrauterine growth restriction and decreased birth weight. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while using this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. 5.11 Neuromuscular Effects Although controlled clinical trials have shown corticosteroids to be effective in speeding the resolution of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, they do not show that they affect the ultimate outcome or natural history of the disease. The studies do show that relatively high doses of corticosteroids are necessary to demonstrate a significant effect. [see Dosage and Administration (3) ]. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids, most often occurring in patients with disorders of neuromuscular transmission (e.g., myasthenia gravis), or in patients receiving concomitant therapy with neuromuscular blocking drugs (e.g., pancuronium). This acute myopathy is generalized, may involve ocular and respiratory muscles, and may result in quadriparesis. Elevation of creatinine kinase may occur. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping corticosteroids may require weeks to years. 5.12 Kaposi's Sarcoma Kaposi's sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Taper doses gradually for withdrawal after chronic use. (5.1) Infections: Increased susceptibility to new infection and increased risk of exacerbation, dissemination, or reactivation of latent infection. Signs and symptoms of infection may be masked. (5.2) Elevated blood pressure, salt and water retention and hypokalemia: Monitor blood pressure and sodium, potassium serum levels. (5.3) GI perforation: increased risk in patients with certain GI disorders. Signs and symptoms may be masked. (5.4) Behavioral and mood disturbances: May include euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, severe depression, and psychosis. Existing conditions may be aggravated. (5.5) Decreases in bone density: Monitor bone density in patients receiving long term corticosteroid therapy. (5.6) Ophthalmic effects: May include cataracts, infections and glaucoma. Monitor intraocular pressure if corticosteroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks. (5.7) Live or live attenuated vaccines: Do not administer to patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. ( 5. 8) Negative effects on growth and development: Monitor pediatric patients on long-term corticosteroid therapy. (5.9) Use in pregnancy: Fetal harm can occur with first trimester use. Apprise women of potential harm to the fetus. (5.10) 5.1 Alterations in Endocrine Function Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, and hyperglycemia. Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired, salt and/or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently. Mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance in infancy. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. 5.2 Increased Risks Related to Infections Corticosteroids may increase the risks related to infections with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic infections. The degree to which the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration correlates with the specific risks of infection is not well characterized, however, with increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and may reduce resistance to new infections. Corticosteroids may exacerbate infections and increase risk of disseminated infection. The use of Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in non-immune children or adults on corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions. Corticosteroids may increase risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infection. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Corticosteroids may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. 5.3 Alterations in Cardiovascular/Renal Function Corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium and calcium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. These agents should be used with caution in patients with hypertension, congestive heart failure, or renal insufficiency. Literature reports suggest an association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with caution in these patients. 5.4 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal (GI) perforation in patients with certain GI disorders. Signs of GI perforation, such as peritoneal irritation, may be masked in patients receiving corticosteroids. Corticosteroids should be used with caution if there is a probability of impending perforation, abscess or other pyogenic infections; diverticulitis; fresh intestinal anastomoses; and active or latent peptic ulcer. 5.5 Behavioral and Mood Disturbances Corticosteroid use may be associated with central nervous system effects ranging from euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, and severe depression, to frank psychotic manifestations. Also, existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids. 5.6 Decrease in Bone Density Corticosteroids decrease bone formation and increase bone resorption both through their effect on calcium regulation (i.e., decreasing absorption and increasing excretion) and inhibition of osteoblast function. This, together with a decrease in the protein matrix of the bone secondary to an increase in protein catabolism, and reduced sex hormone production, may lead to inhibition of bone growth in children and adolescents and the development of osteoporosis at any age. Special consideration should be given to patients at increased risk of osteoporosis (e.g., postmenopausal women) before initiating corticosteroid therapy and bone density should be monitored in patients on long term corticosteroid therapy. 5.7 Ophthalmic Effects Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Intraocular pressure may become elevated in some individuals. If steroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks, intraocular pressure should be monitored. Patients with Ocular Herpes Simplex Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of possible corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. 5.8 Vaccination Administration of live or live attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered; however, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. While on corticosteroid therapy, patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients who are on corticosteroids, especially on high dose, because of possible hazards of neurological complications and a lack of antibody response. 5.9 Effect on Growth and Development Long-term use of corticosteroids can have negative effects on growth and development in children. Growth and development of pediatric patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should be carefully monitored. 5.10 Use in Pregnancy Prednisolone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Human and animal studies suggest that use of corticosteroids during the first trimester of pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of orofacial clefts, intrauterine growth restriction and decreased birth weight. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while using this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.11 Neuromuscular Effects Although controlled clinical trials have shown corticosteroids to be effective in speeding the resolution of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, they do not show that they affect the ultimate outcome or natural history of the disease. The studies do show that relatively high doses of corticosteroids are necessary to demonstrate a significant effect. [see Dosage and Administration (3)]. An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids, most often occurring in patients with disorders of neuromuscular transmission (e.g., myasthenia gravis), or in patients receiving concomitant therapy with neuromuscular blocking drugs (e.g., pancuronium). This acute myopathy is generalized, may involve ocular and respiratory muscles, and may result in quadriparesis. Elevation of creatinine kinase may occur. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping corticosteroids may require weeks to years. 5.12 Kaposi's Sarcoma Kaposi's sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome and hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use Taper doses gradually for withdrawal after chronic use. (5.1) Infections: Increased susceptibility to new infection and increased risk of exacerbation, dissemination, or reactivation of latent infection. Signs and symptoms of infection may be masked. (5.2) Elevated blood pressure, salt and water retention and hypokalemia: Monitor blood pressure and sodium, potassium serum levels. (5.3) GI perforation: increased risk of patients with certain GI disorders. Signs and symptoms may be masked. (5.4) Behavior and mood disturbances: May include euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, severe depression, and psychosis. Existing conditions may be aggravated. (5) Decreased in bone density: Monitor bone density in patients receiving long term corticosteroid therapy. (5.6) Ophthalmic effects: May include cataracts, infections and glaucoma. Monitor intraocular pressure if corticosteroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks. (5.7) Live of live attenuated vaccines: Do not administer to patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroid therapy. (5.8) Negative effects on growth and development: Monitor pediatric patients on long-term corticosteroid therapy. (5.9) Use in pregnancy: Fetal harm can occur with first trimester use. Apprise women of potential harm to the fetus. (5.10) 5.1 Alterations in Endocrine Function Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, and hyperglycemia. Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired, salt and/or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently. Mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance in infancy. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. 5.2 Increased Risks Related to Infections Corticosteroids may increase the risks related to infections with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic infections. The degree to which the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration correlates with the specific risks of infection is not well characterized, however, with increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and may reduce resistance to new infections. Corticosteroids may exacerbate infections and increase risk of disseminated infection. The use of Orapred in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in non-immune children or adults on corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions. Corticosteroids may increase risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infection. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Corticosteroids may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. 5.3 Alterations in Cardiovascular/Renal Function Corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium and calcium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. These agents should be used with caution in patients with hypertension, congestive heart failure, or renal insufficiency. Literature reports suggest an association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with caution in these patients. 5.4 Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal (Gl) perforation in patients with certain Gl disorders. Signs of Gl perforation, such as peritoneal irritation, may be masked in patients receiving corticosteroids. Corticosteroids should be used with caution if there is a probability of impending perforation, abscess or other pyogenic infections; diverticulitis; fresh intestinal anastomoses; and active or latent peptic ulcer. 5.5 Behavioral and Mood Disturbances Corticosteroid use may be associated with central nervous system effects ranging from euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, and severe depression, to frank psychotic manifestations. Also, existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids. 5.6 Decrease in Bone Density Corticosteroids decrease bone formation and increase bone resorption both through their effect on calcium regulation (i.e., decreasing absorption and increasing excretion) and inhibition of osteoblast function. This, together with a decrease in the protein matrix of the bone secondary to an increase in protein catabolism, and reduced sex hormone production, may lead to inhibition of bone growth in children and adolescents and the development of osteoporosis at any age. Special consideration should be given to patients at increased risk of osteoporosis (e.g., postmenopausal women) before initiating corticosteroid therapy and bone density should be monitored in patients on long term corticosteroid therapy. 5.7 Ophthalmic Effects Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Intraocular pressure may become elevated in some individuals. If steroid therapy is continued for more than 6 weeks, intraocular pressure should be monitored. Patients with Ocular Herpes Simplex Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of possible corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. 5.8 Vaccination Administration of live or live attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered; however, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. While on corticosteroid therapy, patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients who are on corticosteroids, especially on high dose, because of possible hazards of neurological complications and a lack of antibody response. 5.9 Effect on Growth and Development Long-term use of corticosteroids can have negative effects on growth and development in children. Growth and development of pediatric patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should be carefully monitored. 5.10 Use in Pregnancy Prednisolone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Human and animal studies suggest that use of corticosteroids during the first trimester of pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of orofacial clefts, intrauterine growth restriction and decreased birth weight. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while using this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.11 Neuromuscular Effects Although controlled clinical trials have shown corticosteroids to be effective in speeding the resolution of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, they do not show that they affect the ultimate outcome or natural history of the disease. The studies do show that relatively high doses of corticosteroids are necessary to demonstrate a significant effect, [see Dosage and Administration (3)] An acute myopathy has been observed with the use of high doses of corticosteroids, most often occurring in patients with disorders of neuromuscular transmission (e.g., myasthenia gravis), or in patients receiving concomitant therapy with neuromuscular blocking drugs (e.g., pancuronium). This acute myopathy is generalized, may involve ocular and respiratory muscles, and may result in quadriparesis. Elevation of creatinine kinase may occur. Clinical improvement or recovery after stopping corticosteroids may require weeks to years. 5.12 Kaposi's Sarcoma Kaposi's sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS In clinical trials of COREG CR in patients with hypertension (338 subjects) and in patients with left ventricular dysfunction following a myocardial infarction or heart failure (187 subjects), the profile of adverse events observed with carvedilol phosphate was generally similar to that observed with the administration of immediate-release carvedilol. Therefore, the information included within this section is based on data from controlled clinical trials with COREG CR as well as immediate-release carvedilol. Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy: Do not abruptly discontinue. (5.1) Bradycardia, hypotension, worsening heart failure/fluid retention may occur. Reduce the dose as needed. (5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Non-allergic bronchospasm (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema): Avoid \\316\\262-blockers. (4) However, if deemed necessary, use with caution and at lowest effective dose. (5.5) Diabetes: Monitor glucose as \\316\\262-blockers may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia or worsen hyperglycemia. (5.6) 5.1 Cessation of Therapy Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with COREG CR, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. Severe exacerbation of angina and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in angina patients following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with \\316\\262-blockers. The last 2 complications may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris. As with other \\316\\262-blockers, when discontinuation of COREG CR is planned, the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. COREG CR should be discontinued over 1 to 2 weeks whenever possible. If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, it is recommended that COREG CR be promptly reinstituted, at least temporarily. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with COREG CR abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension or heart failure. 5.2 Bradycardia In clinical trials with immediate-release carvedilol, bradycardia was reported in about 2% of hypertensive patients, 9% of heart failure patients, and 6.5% of myocardial infarction patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Bradycardia was reported in 0.5% of patients receiving COREG CR in a study of heart failure patients and myocardial infarction patients with left ventricular dysfunction. There were no reports of bradycardia in the clinical trial of COREG CR in hypertension. However, if pulse rate drops below 55 beats/minute, the dosage of COREG CR should be reduced. 5.3 Hypotension In clinical trials of primarily mild-to-moderate heart failure with immediate-release carvedilol, hypotension and postural hypotension occurred in 9.7% and syncope in 3.4% of patients receiving carvedilol compared to 3.6% and 2.5% of placebo patients, respectively. The risk for these events was highest during the first 30 days of dosing, corresponding to the up-titration period and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 0.7% of carvedilol patients, compared to 0.4% of placebo patients. In a long-term, placebo-controlled trial in severe heart failure (COPERNICUS), hypotension and postural hypotension occurred in 15.1% and syncope in 2.9% of heart failure patients receiving carvedilol compared to 8.7% and 2.3% of placebo patients, respectively. These events were a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1.1% of carvedilol patients, compared to 0.8% of placebo patients. In a trial comparing heart failure patients switched to COREG CR or maintained on immediate-release carvedilol, there was a 2-fold increase in the combined incidence of hypotension, syncope or dizziness in elderly patients (> 65 years) switched from the highest dose of carvedilol (25 mg twice daily) to COREG CR 80 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. In the clinical trial of COREG CR in hypertensive patients, syncope was reported in 0.3% of patients receiving COREG CR compared to 0% of patients receiving placebo. There were no reports of postural hypotension in this trial. Postural hypotension occurred in 1.8% and syncope in 0.1% of hypertensive patients receiving immediate-release carvedilol, primarily following the initial dose or at the time of dose increase and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1% of patients. In the CAPRICORN study of survivors of an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction, hypotension or postural hypotension occurred in 20.2% of patients receiving carvedilol compared to 12.6% of placebo patients. Syncope was reported in 3.9% and 1.9% of patients, respectively. These events were a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 2.5% of patients receiving carvedilol, compared to 0.2% of placebo patients. Starting with a low dose, administration with food, and gradual up-titration should decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2, 2.3)]. During initiation of therapy, the patient should be cautioned to avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks, where injury could result should syncope occur. 5.4 Heart Failure/Fluid Retention Worsening heart failure or fluid retention may occur during up-titration of carvedilol. If such symptoms occur, diuretics should be increased and the dose of COREG CR should not be advanced until clinical stability resumes [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Occasionally it is necessary to lower the dose of COREG CR or temporarily discontinue it. Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to, COREG CR. In a placebo-controlled trial of patients with severe heart failure, worsening heart failure during the first 3 months was reported to a similar degree with immediate-release carvedilol and with placebo. When treatment was maintained beyond 3 months, worsening heart failure was reported less frequently in patients treated with carvedilol than with placebo. Worsening heart failure observed during long-term therapy is more likely to be related to the patients' underlying disease than to treatment with carvedilol. 5.5 Nonallergic Bronchospasm Patients with bronchospastic disease (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema) should, in general, not receive \\316\\262-blockers. COREG CR may be used with caution, however, in patients who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive agents. It is prudent, if COREG CR is used, to use the smallest effective dose, so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous \\316\\262-agonists is minimized. In clinical trials of patients with heart failure, patients with bronchospastic disease were enrolled if they did not require oral or inhaled medication to treat their bronchospastic disease. In such patients, it is recommended that COREG CR be used with caution. The dosing recommendations should be followed closely and the dose should be lowered if any evidence of bronchospasm is observed during up-titration. 5.6 Glycemic Control in Type 2 Diabetes In general, \\316\\262-blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia. Nonselective \\316\\262-blockers may potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels. Patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents, should be cautioned about these possibilities. In heart failure patients with diabetes, carvedilol therapy may lead to worsening hyperglycemia, which responds to intensification of hypoglycemic therapy. It is recommended that blood glucose be monitored when dosing with COREG CR is initiated, adjusted, or discontinued. Studies designed to examine the effects of carvedilol on glycemic control in patients with diabetes and heart failure have not been conducted. In a study designed to examine the effects of immediate-release carvedilol on glycemic control in a population with mild-to-moderate hypertension and well-controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus, carvedilol had no adverse effect on glycemic control, based on HbA1c measurements [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 5.7 Peripheral Vascular Disease \\316\\262-blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Caution should be exercised in such individuals. 5.8 Deterioration of Renal Function Rarely, use of carvedilol in patients with heart failure has resulted in deterioration of renal function. Patients at risk appear to be those with low blood pressure (systolic blood pressure <100 mm Hg), ischemic heart disease and diffuse vascular disease, and/or underlying renal insufficiency. Renal function has returned to baseline when carvedilol was stopped. In patients with these risk factors it is recommended that renal function be monitored during up-titration of COREG CR and the drug discontinued or dosage reduced if worsening of renal function occurs. 5.9 Anesthesia and Major Surgery If treatment with COREG CR is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents which depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [see Overdosage (10) for information on treatment of bradycardia and hypertension]. 5.10 Thyrotoxicosis \\316\\262-adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia. Abrupt withdrawal of \\316\\262-blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm. 5.11 Pheochromocytoma In patients with pheochromocytoma, an \\316\\261-blocking agent should be initiated prior to the use of any \\316\\262-blocking agent. Although carvedilol has both \\316\\261- and \\316\\262-blocking pharmacologic activities, there has been no experience with its use in this condition. Therefore, caution should be taken in the administration of carvedilol to patients suspected of having pheochromocytoma. 5.12 Prinzmetal's Variant Angina Agents with non-selective \\316\\262-blocking activity may provoke chest pain in patients with Prinzmetal's variant angina. There has been no clinical experience with carvedilol in these patients although the \\316\\261-blocking activity may prevent such symptoms. However, caution should be taken in the administration of COREG CR to patients suspected of having Prinzmetal's variant angina. 5.13 Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking \\316\\262-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS In clinical trials of COREG CR in subjects with hypertension (338 subjects) and in subjects with left ventricular dysfunction following a myocardial infarction or heart failure (187 subjects), the profile of adverse events observed with carvedilol phosphate was generally similar to that observed with the administration of immediate-release carvedilol. Therefore, the information included within this section is based on data from controlled clinical trials with COREG CR as well as immediate-release carvedilol. -Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy: Do not abruptly discontinue. (5.1) -Bradycardia, hypotension, worsening heart failure/fluid retention may occur. Reduce the dose as needed. (5.2, 5.3, 5.4) -Non-allergic bronchospasm (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema): Avoid \\316\\262-blockers. (4) However, if deemed necessary, use with caution and at lowest effective dose. (5.5) -Diabetes: Monitor glucose as \\316\\262-blockers may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia or worsen hyperglycemia. (5.6) 5.1 Cessation of Therapy Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with COREG CR, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. Severe exacerbation of angina and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in angina patients following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with \\316\\262-blockers. The last 2 complications may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris. As with other \\316\\262-blockers, when discontinuation of COREG CR is planned, the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. COREG CR should be discontinued over 1 to 2 weeks whenever possible. If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, it is recommended that COREG CR be promptly reinstituted, at least temporarily. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with COREG CR abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension or heart failure. 5.2 Bradycardia In clinical trials with immediate-release carvedilol, bradycardia was reported in about 2% of hypertensive subjects, 9% of heart failure subjects, and 6.5% of myocardial infarction subjects with left ventricular dysfunction. Bradycardia was reported in 0.5% of subjects receiving COREG CR in a trial of heart failure subjects and myocardial infarction subjects with left ventricular dysfunction. There were no reports of bradycardia in the clinical trial of COREG CR in hypertension. However, if pulse rate drops below 55 beats per minute, the dosage of COREG CR should be reduced. 5.3 Hypotension In clinical trials of primarily mild-to-moderate heart failure with immediate-release carvedilol, hypotension and postural hypotension occurred in 9.7% and syncope in 3.4% of subjects receiving carvedilol compared with 3.6% and 2.5% of placebo subjects, respectively. The risk for these events was highest during the first 30 days of dosing, corresponding to the up-titration period and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 0.7% of carvedilol subjects, compared with 0.4% of placebo subjects. In a long-term, placebo-controlled trial in severe heart failure (COPERNICUS), hypotension and postural hypotension occurred in 15.1% and syncope in 2.9% of subjects with heart failure receiving carvedilol compared with 8.7% and 2.3% of placebo subjects, respectively. These events were a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1.1% of carvedilol subjects, compared with 0.8% of placebo subjects. In a trial comparing subjects with heart failure switched to COREG CR or maintained on immediate-release carvedilol, there was a 2-fold increase in the combined incidence of hypotension, syncope, or dizziness in elderly subjects (older than 65 years) switched from the highest dose of carvedilol (25 mg twice daily) to COREG CR 80 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. In the clinical trial of COREG CR in hypertensive subjects, syncope was reported in 0.3% of subjects receiving COREG CR compared with 0% of subjects receiving placebo. There were no reports of postural hypotension in this trial. Postural hypotension occurred in 1.8% and syncope in 0.1% of hypertensive subjects receiving immediate-release carvedilol, primarily following the initial dose or at the time of dose increase and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1% of subjects. In the CAPRICORN trial of survivors of an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction, hypotension or postural hypotension occurred in 20.2% of subjects receiving carvedilol compared with 12.6% of placebo subjects. Syncope was reported in 3.9% and 1.9% of subjects, respectively. These events were a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 2.5% of subjects receiving carvedilol, compared with 0.2% of placebo subjects. Starting with a low dose, administration with food, and gradual up-titration should decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2, 2.3)]. During initiation of therapy, the patient should be cautioned to avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks, where injury could result should syncope occur. 5.4 Heart Failure/Fluid Retention Worsening heart failure or fluid retention may occur during up-titration of carvedilol. If such symptoms occur, diuretics should be increased and the dose of COREG CR should not be advanced until clinical stability resumes [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Occasionally it is necessary to lower the dose of COREG CR or temporarily discontinue it. Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to, COREG CR. In a placebo-controlled trial of subjects with severe heart failure, worsening heart failure during the first 3 months was reported to a similar degree with immediate-release carvedilol and with placebo. When treatment was maintained beyond 3 months, worsening heart failure was reported less frequently in subjects treated with carvedilol than with placebo. Worsening heart failure observed during long-term therapy is more likely to be related to the patients' underlying disease than to treatment with carvedilol. 5.5 Non-allergic Bronchospasm Patients with bronchospastic disease (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema) should, in general, not receive \\316\\262-blockers. COREG CR may be used with caution, however, in patients who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive agents. It is prudent, if COREG CR is used, to use the smallest effective dose, so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous \\316\\262-agonists is minimized. In clinical trials of subjects with heart failure, subjects with bronchospastic disease were enrolled if they did not require oral or inhaled medication to treat their bronchospastic disease. In such patients, it is recommended that COREG CR be used with caution. The dosing recommendations should be followed closely and the dose should be lowered if any evidence of bronchospasm is observed during up-titration. 5.6 Glycemic Control in Type 2 Diabetes In general, \\316\\262-blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia. Nonselective \\316\\262-blockers may potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels. Patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents, should be cautioned about these possibilities. In heart failure patients with diabetes, carvedilol therapy may lead to worsening hyperglycemia, which responds to intensification of hypoglycemic therapy. It is recommended that blood glucose be monitored when dosing with COREG CR is initiated, adjusted, or discontinued. Trials designed to examine the effects of carvedilol on glycemic control in patients with diabetes and heart failure have not been conducted. In a trial designed to examine the effects of immediate-release carvedilol on glycemic control in a population with mild-to-moderate hypertension and well-controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus, carvedilol had no adverse effect on glycemic control, based on HbA1c measurements [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 5.7 Peripheral Vascular Disease \\316\\262-blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Caution should be exercised in such individuals. 5.8 Deterioration of Renal Function Rarely, use of carvedilol in patients with heart failure has resulted in deterioration of renal function. Patients at risk appear to be those with low blood pressure (systolic blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg), ischemic heart disease and diffuse vascular disease, and/or underlying renal insufficiency. Renal function has returned to baseline when carvedilol was stopped. In patients with these risk factors it is recommended that renal function be monitored during up-titration of COREG CR and the drug discontinued or dosage reduced if worsening of renal function occurs. 5.9 Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery; however, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. 5.10 Thyrotoxicosis \\316\\262-adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia. Abrupt withdrawal of \\316\\262-blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm. 5.11 Pheochromocytoma In patients with pheochromocytoma, an \\316\\261-blocking agent should be initiated prior to the use of any \\316\\262-blocking agent. Although carvedilol has both \\316\\261- and \\316\\262-blocking pharmacologic activities, there has been no experience with its use in this condition. Therefore, caution should be taken in the administration of carvedilol to patients suspected of having pheochromocytoma. 5.12 Prinzmetal's Variant Angina Agents with non-selective \\316\\262-blocking activity may provoke chest pain in patients with Prinzmetal's variant angina. There has been no clinical experience with carvedilol in these patients although the \\316\\261-blocking activity may prevent such symptoms. However, caution should be taken in the administration of COREG CR to patients suspected of having Prinzmetal's variant angina. 5.13 Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking \\316\\262-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. 5.14 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with alpha-1 blockers (COREG CR is an alpha/beta blocker). This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique, such as utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS In clinical trials of COREG CR in subjects with hypertension (338 subjects) and in subjects with left ventricular dysfunction following a myocardial infarction or heart failure (187 subjects), the profile of adverse events observed with carvedilol phosphate was generally similar to that observed with the administration of immediate-release carvedilol. Therefore, the information included within this section is based on data from controlled clinical trials with COREG CR as well as immediate-release carvedilol. Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy: Do not abruptly discontinue. ( ) - 5.1 Bradycardia, hypotension, worsening heart failure/fluid retention may occur. Reduce the dose as needed. ( , , ) - 5.2 5.3 5.4 Non-allergic bronchospasm (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema): Avoid \\316\\262-blockers. ( ) However, if deemed necessary, use with caution and at lowest effective dose. ( ) - 4 5.5 Diabetes: Monitor glucose as \\316\\262-blockers may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia or worsen hyperglycemia. ( ) - 5.6 5.1 Cessation of Therapy - - Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with COREG CR, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. Severe exacerbation of angina and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in angina patients following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with \\316\\262 blockers. The last 2 complications may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris. As with other \\316\\262 blockers, when discontinuation of COREG CR is planned, the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. COREG CR should be discontinued over 1 to 2 weeks whenever possible. If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, it is recommended that COREG CR be promptly reinstituted, at least temporarily. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with COREG CR abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension or heart failure. 5.2 Bradycardia In clinical trials with immediate-release carvedilol, bradycardia was reported in about 2% of hypertensive subjects, 9% of heart failure subjects, and 6.5% of myocardial infarction subjects with left ventricular dysfunction. Bradycardia was reported in 0.5% of subjects receiving COREG CR in a trial of heart failure subjects and myocardial infarction subjects with left ventricular dysfunction. There were no reports of bradycardia in the clinical trial of COREG CR in hypertension. However, if pulse rate drops below 55 beats/minute, the dosage of COREG CR should be reduced. 5.3 Hypotension In clinical trials of primarily mild-to-moderate heart failure with immediate-release carvedilol, hypotension and postural hypotension occurred in 9.7% and syncope in 3.4% of subjects receiving carvedilol compared with 3.6% and 2.5% of placebo subjects, respectively. The risk for these events was highest during the first 30 days of dosing, corresponding to the up-titration period and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 0.7% of carvedilol subjects, compared with 0.4% of placebo subjects. In a long-term, placebo-controlled trial in severe heart failure (COPERNICUS), hypotension and postural hypotension occurred in 15.1% and syncope in 2.9% of subjects with heart failure receiving carvedilol compared with 8.7% and 2.3% of placebo subjects, respectively. These events were a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1.1% of carvedilol subjects, compared with 0.8% of placebo subjects. In a trial comparing subjects with heart failure switched to COREG CR or maintained on immediate-release carvedilol, there was a 2-fold increase in the combined incidence of hypotension, syncope, or dizziness in elderly subjects (>65 years) switched from the highest dose of carvedilol (25 mg twice daily) to COREG CR 80 mg once daily . [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5)] In the clinical trial of COREG CR in hypertensive subjects, syncope was reported in 0.3% of subjects receiving COREG CR compared with 0% of subjects receiving placebo. There were no reports of postural hypotension in this trial. Postural hypotension occurred in 1.8% and syncope in 0.1% of hypertensive subjects receiving immediate-release carvedilol, primarily following the initial dose or at the time of dose increase and was a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 1% of subjects. In the CAPRICORN trial of survivors of an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction, hypotension or postural hypotension occurred in 20.2% of subjects receiving carvedilol compared with 12.6% of placebo subjects. Syncope was reported in 3.9% and 1.9% of subjects, respectively. These events were a cause for discontinuation of therapy in 2.5% of subjects receiving carvedilol, compared with 0.2% of placebo subjects. Starting with a low dose, administration with food, and gradual up-titration should decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension . During initiation of therapy, the patient should be cautioned to avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks, where injury could result should syncope occur. [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2, 2.3)] 5.4 Heart Failure/Fluid Retention Worsening heart failure or fluid retention may occur during up-titration of carvedilol. If such symptoms occur, diuretics should be increased and the dose of COREG CR should not be advanced until clinical stability resumes . Occasionally it is necessary to lower the dose of COREG CR or temporarily discontinue it. Such episodes do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to, COREG CR. In a placebo-controlled trial of subjects with severe heart failure, worsening heart failure during the first 3 months was reported to a similar degree with immediate-release carvedilol and with placebo. When treatment was maintained beyond 3 months, worsening heart failure was reported less frequently in subjects treated with carvedilol than with placebo. Worsening heart failure observed during long-term therapy is more likely to be related to the patients' underlying disease than to treatment with carvedilol. [see Dosage and Administration (2)] 5.5 Non-allergic Bronchospasm Patients with bronchospastic disease (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema) should, in general, not receive \\316\\262-blockers. COREG CR may be used with caution, however, in patients who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive agents. It is prudent, if COREG CR is used, to use the smallest effective dose, so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous \\316\\262-agonists is minimized. In clinical trials of subjects with heart failure, subjects with bronchospastic disease were enrolled if they did not require oral or inhaled medication to treat their bronchospastic disease. In such patients, it is recommended that COREG CR be used with caution. The dosing recommendations should be followed closely and the dose should be lowered if any evidence of bronchospasm is observed during up-titration. 5.6 Glycemic Control in Type 2 Diabetes In general, \\316\\262-blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia. Nonselective \\316\\262-blockers may potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels. Patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents, should be cautioned about these possibilities. In heart failure patients with diabetes, carvedilol therapy may lead to worsening hyperglycemia, which responds to intensification of hypoglycemic therapy. It is recommended that blood glucose be monitored when dosing with COREG CR is initiated, adjusted, or discontinued. Trials designed to examine the effects of carvedilol on glycemic control in patients with diabetes and heart failure have not been conducted. In a trial designed to examine the effects of immediate-release carvedilol on glycemic control in a population with mild-to-moderate hypertension and well-controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus, carvedilol had no adverse effect on glycemic control, based on HbA1c measurements . [see Clinical Studies (14.4)] 5.7 Peripheral Vascular Disease \\316\\262-blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Caution should be exercised in such individuals. 5.8 Deterioration of Renal Function Rarely, use of carvedilol in patients with heart failure has resulted in deterioration of renal function. Patients at risk appear to be those with low blood pressure (systolic blood pressure <100 mm Hg), ischemic heart disease and diffuse vascular disease, and/or underlying renal insufficiency. Renal function has returned to baseline when carvedilol was stopped. In patients with these risk factors it is recommended that renal function be monitored during up-titration of COREG CR and the drug discontinued or dosage reduced if worsening of renal function occurs. 5.9 Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery; however, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. 5.10 Thyrotoxicosis \\316\\262-adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia. Abrupt withdrawal of \\316\\262-blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm. 5.11 Pheochromocytoma In patients with pheochromocytoma, an \\316\\261-blocking agent should be initiated prior to the use of any \\316\\262-blocking agent. Although carvedilol has both \\316\\261- and \\316\\262-blocking pharmacologic activities, there has been no experience with its use in this condition. Therefore, caution should be taken in the administration of carvedilol to patients suspected of having pheochromocytoma. 5.12 Prinzmetal's Variant Angina Agents with non-selective \\316\\262-blocking activity may provoke chest pain in patients with Prinzmetal's variant angina. There has been no clinical experience with carvedilol in these patients although the \\316\\261-blocking activity may prevent such symptoms. However, caution should be taken in the administration of COREG CR to patients suspected of having Prinzmetal's variant angina. 5.13 Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking \\316\\262-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. 5.14 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with alpha-1 blockers (COREG CR is an alpha/beta blocker). This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents, progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs, and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions. The patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique, such as utilization of iris hooks, iris dilator rings, or viscoelastic substances. There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha-1 blocker therapy prior to cataract surgery."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Patients with neutropenia: The safety and efficacy of SIVEXTRO in patients with neutropenia (neutrophil counts <1000 cells/mm3) have not been adequately evaluated. In an animal model of infection, the antibacterial activity of SIVEXTRO was reduced in the absence of granulocytes. Consider alternative therapies in neutropenic patients. (5.1) Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea: Evaluate if diarrhea occurs. (5.2) 5.1 Patients with Neutropenia The safety and efficacy of SIVEXTRO in patients with neutropenia (neutrophil counts <1000 cells/mm3) have not been adequately evaluated. In an animal model of infection, the antibacterial activity of SIVEXTRO was reduced in the absence of granulocytes [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Alternative therapies should be considered when treating patients with neutropenia and acute bacterial skin and skin structure infection. 5.2 Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported for nearly all systemic antibacterial agents including SIVEXTRO, with severity ranging from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents can alter the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of C. difficile. C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antibacterial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary because CDAD has been reported to occur more than two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, antibacterial use not directed against C. difficile should be discontinued, if possible. Appropriate measures such as fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibacterial treatment of C. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. 5.3 Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria Prescribing SIVEXTRO in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Renal impairment may occur. Assess renal function before treatment and during therapy (5.1) -Seizures due to electrolyte abnormalities can occur (5.3) -Use caution in patients with higher risk of arrhythmias, e.g., cardiomyopathy, prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, or recent MI (5.2, 5.5) -Adequately hydrate before, during and after dosing (5.4) -Use caution in patients with history of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (5.6) 5.1 Renal Disease, Acute Phosphate Nephropathy, and Electrolyte Disorders Nephropathy, and Electrolyte Disorders Renal Disease and Acute Phosphate Nephropathy There have been rare, but serious, reports of renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, and nephrocalcinosis in patients who received oral sodium phosphate products (including oral sodium phosphate solutions and tablets) for colon cleansing prior to colonoscopy. These cases often resulted in permanent impairment of renal function and several patients required long-term dialysis. The time to onset is typically within days; however, in some cases, the diagnosis of these events has been delayed up to several months after the ingestion of these products. Patients at increased risk of acute phosphate nephropathy may include patients with the following: hypovolemia, baseline kidney disease, increased age, and patients using medicines that affect renal perfusion or function [such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and possibly nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Use OsmoPrep with caution in patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute), patients with a history of acute phosphate nephropathy, known or suspected electrolyte disturbances (such as dehydration), or people taking concomitant medications that may affect electrolyte levels (such as diuretics). Patients with electrolyte abnormalities such as hypernatremia, hyperphosphatemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia should have their electrolytes corrected before treatment with OsmoPrep Tablets. Electrolyte Disorders Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of OsmoPrep. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration while or after taking OsmoPrep, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. [see Dosage and Administration (2) Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with OsmoPrep. In addition, use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment. [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] Patients should not administer additional laxative or purgative agents, particularly additional sodium phosphate-based purgative or enema products. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). QT prolongation with sodium phosphate tablets has been associated with electrolyte imbalances, such as hypokalemia and hypocalcemia. OsmoPrep Tablets should be used with caution in patients who are taking medications known to prolong the QT interval, since serious complications may occur. Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of sodium phosphate osmotic laxative products, such as OsmoPrep, in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. OsmoPrep should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures and in patients at higher risk of seizure [patients using concomitant medications that lower the seizure threshold (such as tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia]. 5.4 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering OsmoPrep. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.5 Inflammatory Bowel Disease Administration of OsmoPrep Tablets may induce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations. In the OsmoPrep clinical program, aphthous ulcers were observed in 3% of patients who took the 48 gram OsmoPrep dosing regimen. This colonoscopic finding should be considered in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease. Because published data suggest that sodium phosphate absorption may be enhanced in patients experiencing an acute exacerbation of chronic inflammatory bowel disease, OsmoPrep Tablets should be used with caution in such patients. 5.6 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of OsmoPrep."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions for corticosteroids include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. Allergic Reactions: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scalp, edema, facial erythema, hyper or hypo-pigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, petechiae and ecchymoses, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria Endocrine: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased carbohydrate tolerance, development of Cushingoid state, hirsutism, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus and increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics, menstrual irregularities, moon facies, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness), suppression of growth in children Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Fluid retention, potassium loss, hypertension, hypokalemic alkalosis, sodium retention Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); hepatomegaly, hiccups, malaise, nausea, pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis General: Increased appetite and weight gain Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures Neurological: Arachnoiditis, convulsions; depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; insomnia, meningitis, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paraparesis/paraplegia, paresthesia, personality changes, sensory disturbances, vertigo Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts Reproductive: Alteration in motility and number of spermatozoa Common adverse reactions for corticosteroids include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Concordia Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-370-1142 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions for corticosteroids include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. Allergic Reactions: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scalp, edema, facial erythema, hyper or hypo-pigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, petechiae and ecchymoses, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria Endocrine: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased carbohydrate tolerance, development of Cushingoid state, hirsutism, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus and increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics, menstrual irregularities, moon facies, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness), suppression of growth in children Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Fluid retention, potassium loss, hypertension, hypokalemic alkalosis, sodium retention Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); hepatomegaly, hiccups, malaise, nausea, pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis General: Increased appetite and weight gain Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures Neurological: Arachnoiditis, convulsions; depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; insomnia, meningitis, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paraparesis/paraplegia, paresthesia, personality changes, sensory disturbances, vertigo Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts Reproductive: Alteration in motility and number of spermatozoa Common adverse reactions for corticosteroids include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Prasco Laboratories at 1-866-525-0688 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions for corticosteroids include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. Allergic Reactions: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scalp, edema, facial erythema, hyper or hypo-pigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, petechiae and ecchymoses, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria Endocrine: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased carbohydrate tolerance, development of Cushingoid state, hirsutism, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus and increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics, menstrual irregularities, moon facies, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness), suppression of growth in children Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Fluid retention, potassium loss, hypertension, hypokalemic alkalosis, sodium retention Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); hepatomegaly, hiccups, malaise, nausea, pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis General: Increased appetite and weight gain Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures Neurological: Arachnoiditis, convulsions; depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; insomnia, meningitis, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paraparesis/ paraplegia, paresthesia, personality changes, sensory disturbances, vertigo Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts Reproductive: Alteration in motility and number of spermatozoa Common adverse reactions for corticosteroids include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Shionogi Drug Safety Department at 1-800-849-9707 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=3%) are abdominal bloating,abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-508-0024 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Abdominal bloating, nausea, abdominal pain, and vomiting were the most common adverse events reported with the use of OsmoPrep Tablets. Dizziness and headache were reported less frequently. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of OsmoPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical studies. Table 1 shows the most common adverse events associated with the use of 48 grams of OsmoPrep, 60 grams of OsmoPrep, and 60 grams of Visicol in the colon preparation trials (n= 931). Table 1: Frequency of Adverse Events of Any Severity Occurring in Greater Than 3% of Patients in the OsmoPrep Trials OsmoPrep 32 tabs (48 g) N=272 OsmoPrep 40 tabs (60 g) N=265 Visicol 40 tabs (60 g) N=268 Bloating 31% 39% 41% Nausea 26% 37% 30% Abdominal Pain 23% 24% 25% Vomiting 4% 10% 9% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of OsmoPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to OsmoPrep, or a combination of these factors. Body as a Whole: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous system: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice the incidence of placebo patients) are: insomnia, ejaculation disorder (primarily ejaculatory delay), nausea, sweating increased, fatigue and somnolence, decreased libido, and anorgasmia (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact: Allegis Pharmaceuticals, LLC. at 1-866-633-9033, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trial Data Sources Pediatrics (6 to 17 years) Adverse events were collected in 576 pediatric patients (286 escitalopram, 290 placebo) with major depressive disorder in doubleblind placebo-controlled studies. Safety and effectiveness of escitalopram in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age has not been established. Adults Adverse events information for escitalopram was collected from 715 patients with major depressive disorder who were exposed to escitalopram and from 592 patients who were exposed to placebo in double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. An additional 284 patients with major depressive disorder were newly exposed to escitalopram in open-label trials. The adverse event information for escitalopram oxalate in patients with GAD was collected from 429 patients exposed to escitalopram and from 427 patients exposed to placebo in double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Adverse events during exposure were obtained primarily by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing. Consequently, it is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events without first grouping similar types of events into a smaller number of standardized event categories. In the tables and tabulations that follow, standard World Health Organization (WHO) terminology has been used to classify reported adverse events. The stated frequencies of adverse reactions represent the proportion of individuals who experienced, at least once, a treatmentemergent adverse event of the type listed. An event was considered treatment-emergent if it occurred for the first time or worsened while receiving therapy following baseline evaluation. Adverse Events Associated with Discontinuation of Treatment Major Depressive Disorder Pediatrics (6 to 17 years) Adverse events were associated with discontinuation of 3.5% of 286 patients receiving escitalopram and 1% of 290 patients receiving placebo. The most common adverse event (incidence at least 1% for escitalopram and greater than placebo) associated with discontinuation was insomnia (1% escitalopram, 0% placebo). Adults Among the 715 depressed patients who received escitalopram in placebo-controlled trials, 6% discontinued treatment due to an adverse event, as compared to 2% of 592 patients receiving placebo. In two fixed-dose studies, the rate of discontinuation for adverse events in patients receiving 10 mg/day escitalopram was not significantly different from the rate of discontinuation for adverse events in patients receiving placebo. The rate of discontinuation for adverse events in patients assigned to a fixed dose of 20 mg/day escitalopram was 10%, which was significantly different from the rate of discontinuation for adverse events in patients receiving 10 mg/day escitalopram (4%) and placebo (3%). Adverse events that were associated with the discontinuation of at least 1% of patients treated with escitalopram, and for which the rate was at least twice that of placebo, were nausea (2%) and ejaculation disorder (2% of male patients). Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults Among the 429 GAD patients who received escitalopram 10 to 20 mg/day in placebo-controlled trials, 8% discontinued treatment due to an adverse event, as compared to 4% of 427 patients receiving placebo. Adverse events that were associated with the discontinuation of at least 1% of patients treated with escitalopram, and for which the rate was at least twice the placebo rate, were nausea (2%), insomnia (1%), and fatigue (1%). Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Major Depressive Disorder Pediatrics (6 to 17 years) The overall profile of adverse reactions in pediatric patients was generally similar to that seen in adult studies, as shown in Table 2. However, the following adverse reactions (excluding those which appear in Table 2 and those for which the coded terms were uninformative or misleading) were reported at an incidence of at least 2% for escitalopram and greater than placebo: back pain, urinary tract infection, vomiting, and nasal congestion. Adults The most commonly observed adverse reactions in escitalopram patients (incidence of approximately 5% or greater and approximately twice the incidence in placebo patients) were insomnia, ejaculation disorder (primarily ejaculatory delay), nausea, sweating increased, fatigue, and somnolence. Table 2 enumerates the incidence, rounded to the nearest percent, of treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred among 715 depressed patients who received escitalopram at doses ranging from 10 to 20 mg/day in placebo-controlled trials. Events included are those occurring in 2% or more of patients treated with escitalopram and for which the incidence in patients treated with escitalopram was greater than the incidence in placebo-treated patients. TABLE 2 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions observed with a frequency of >= 2% and greater than placebo for Major Depressive Disorder Adverse Reaction Escitalopram Placebo (N=715) % (N=592) % Autonomic Nervous System Disorders Dry Mouth 6% 5% Sweating Increased 5% 2% Central & Peripheral Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 5% 3% Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 15% 7% Diarrhea 8% 5% Constipation 3% 1% Indigestion 3% 1% Abdominal Pain 2% 1% General Influenza-like Symptoms 5% 4% Fatigue 5% 2% Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 9% 4% Somnolence 6% 2% Appetite Decreased 3% 1% Libido Decreased 3% 1% Respiratory System Disorders Rhinitis 5% 4% Sinusitis 3% 2% Urogenital Ejaculation DisorderPrimarily ejaculatory delay. , Denominator used was for males only (N=225 escitalopram; N=188 placebo). 9% <1% Impotence 3% <1% AnorgasmiaDenominator used was for females only (N=490 escitalopram; N=404 placebo). 2% <1% Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The most commonly observed adverse reactions in escitalopram patients (incidence of approximately 5% or greater and approximately twice the incidence in placebo patients) were nausea, ejaculation disorder (primarily ejaculatory delay), insomnia, fatigue, decreased libido, and anorgasmia. Table 3 enumerates the incidence, rounded to the nearest percent of treatment-emergent adverse events that occurred among 429 GAD patients who received escitalopram 10 to 20 mg/day in placebo-controlled trials. Events included are those occurring in 2% or more of patients treated with escitalopram and for which the incidence in patients treated with escitalopram was greater than the incidence in placebo-treated patients. TABLE 3 Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions observed with a frequency of >= 2% and greater than placebo for Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adverse Reaction Escitalopram Placebo (N=429) % (N=427) % Autonomic Nervous System Disorders Dry Mouth 9% 5% Sweating Increased 4% 1% Central & Peripheral Nervous System Disorders Headache 24% 17% Paresthesia 2% 1% Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 18% 8% Diarrhea 8% 6% Constipation 5% 4% Indigestion 3% 2% Vomiting 3% 1% Abdominal Pain 2% 1% Flatulence 2% 1% Toothache 2% 0% General Fatigue 8% 2% Influenza-like Symptoms 5% 4% Musculoskeletal System Disorder Neck/Shoulder Pain 3% 1% Psychiatric Disorders Somnolence 13% 7% Insomnia 12% 6% Libido Decreased 7% 2% Dreaming Abnormal 3% 2% Appetite Decreased 3% 1% Lethargy 3% 1% Respiratory System Disorders Yawning 2% 1% Urogenital Ejaculation DisorderPrimarily ejaculatory delay. , Denominator used was for males only (N=182 escitalopram; N=195 placebo). 14% 2% AnorgasmiaDenominator used was for females only (N=247 escitalopram; N=232 placebo). 6% <1% Menstrual Disorder 2% 1% Dose Dependency of Adverse Reactions The potential dose dependency of common adverse reactions (defined as an incidence rate of >=5% in either the 10 mg or 20 mg escitalopram groups) was examined on the basis of the combined incidence of adverse reactions in two fixed-dose trials. The overall incidence rates of adverse events in 10 mg escitalopram-treated patients (66%) was similar to that of the placebo-treated patients (61%), while the incidence rate in 20 mg/day escitalopram-treated patients was greater (86%). Table 4 shows common adverse reactions that occurred in the 20 mg/day escitalopram group with an incidence that was approximately twice that of the 10 mg/day escitalopram group and approximately twice that of the placebo group. TABLE 4 Incidence of Common Adverse Reactions in Patients with Major Depressive Disorder Adverse Reaction Placebo 10 mg/day 20 mg/day (N=311) Escitalopram Escitalopram (N=310) (N=125) Insomnia 4% 7% 14% Diarrhea 5% 6% 14% Dry Mouth 3% 4% 9% Somnolence 1% 4% 9% Dizziness 2% 4% 7% Sweating Increased <1% 3% 8% Constipation 1% 3% 6% Fatigue 2% 2% 6% Indigestion 1% 2% 6% Male and Female Sexual Dysfunction with SSRIs Although changes in sexual desire, sexual performance, and sexual satisfaction often occur as manifestations of a psychiatric disorder, they may also be a consequence of pharmacologic treatment. In particular, some evidence suggests that SSRIs can cause such untoward sexual experiences. Reliable estimates of the incidence and severity of untoward experiences involving sexual desire, performance, and satisfaction are difficult to obtain, however, in part because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss them. Accordingly, estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance cited in product labeling are likely to underestimate their actual incidence. TABLE 5 Incidence of Sexual Side Effects in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Adverse Event Escitalopram Placebo In Males Only (N=407) (N=383) Ejaculation Disorder (primarily ejaculatory delay) 12% 1% Libido Decreased 6% 2% Impotence 2% <1% In Females Only (N=737) (N=636) Libido Decreased 3% 1% Anorgasmia 3% <1% There are no adequately designed studies examining sexual dysfunction with escitalopram treatment. Priapism has been reported with all SSRIs. While it is difficult to know the precise risk of sexual dysfunction associated with the use of SSRIs, physicians should routinely inquire about such possible side effects. Vital Sign Changes Escitalopram and placebo groups were compared with respect to (1) mean change from baseline in vital signs (pulse, systolic blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure) and (2) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables. These analyses did not reveal any clinically important changes in vital signs associated with escitalopram treatment. In addition, a comparison of supine and standing vital sign measures in subjects receiving escitalopram indicated that escitalopram treatment is not associated with orthostatic changes. Weight Changes Patients treated with escitalopram in controlled trials did not differ from placebo-treated patients with regard to clinically important change in body weight. Laboratory Changes Escitalopram and placebo groups were compared with respect to (1) mean change from baseline in various serum chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis variables, and (2) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables. These analyses revealed no clinically important changes in laboratory test parameters associated with escitalopram treatment. ECG Changes Electrocardiograms from escitalopram (N=625) and placebo (N=527) groups were compared with respect to outliers defined as subjects with QTc changes over 60 msec from baseline or absolute values over 500 msec post-dose, and subjects with heart rate increases to over 100 bpm or decreases to less than 50 bpm with a 25% change from baseline (tachycardic or bradycardic outliers, respectively). None of the patients in the escitalopram group had a QTcF interval >500 msec or a prolongation >60 msec compared to 0.2% of patients in the placebo group. The incidence of tachycardic outliers was 0.2% in the escitalopram and the placebo group. The incidence of bradycardic outliers was 0.5% in the escitalopram group and 0.2% in the placebo group. QTcF interval was evaluated in a randomized, placebo and active (moxifloxacin 400 mg) controlled cross-over, escalating multipledose study in 113 healthy subjects. The maximum mean (95% upper confidence bound) difference from placebo arm were 4.5 (6.4) and 10.7 (12.7) msec for 10 mg and supratherapeutic 30 mg escitalopram given once daily, respectively. Based on the established exposure-response relationship, the predicted QTcF change from placebo arm (95% confidence interval) under the Cmax for the dose of 20 mg is 6.6 (7.9) msec. Escitalopram 30 mg given once daily resulted in mean Cmax of 1.7-fold higher than the mean Cmax for the maximum recommended therapeutic dose at steady state (20 mg). The exposure under supratherapeutic 30 mg dose is similar to the steady state concentrations expected in CYP2C19 poor metabolizers following a therapeutic dose of 20 mg. Other Reactions Observed During the Premarketing Evaluation of Escitalopram Following is a list of treatment-emergent adverse events, as defined in the introduction to the ADVERSE REACTIONS section, reported by the 1428 patients treated with escitalopram for periods of up to one year in double-blind or open-label clinical trials during its premarketing evaluation. The listing does not include those events already listed in Tables 2 & 3, those events for which a drug cause was remote and at a rate less than 1% or lower than placebo, those events which were so general as to be uninformative, and those events reported only once which did not have a substantial probability of being acutely life threatening. Events are categorized by body system. Events of major clinical importance are described in the Warnings and Precautions section (5). Cardiovascular - hypertension, palpitation. Central and Peripheral Nervous System Disorders - light-headed feeling, migraine. Gastrointestinal Disorders - abdominal cramp, heartburn, gastroenteritis. General - allergy, chest pain, fever, hot flushes, pain in limb. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders - increased weight. Musculoskeletal System Disorders - arthralgia, myalgia jaw stiffness. Psychiatric Disorders - appetite increased, concentration impaired, irritability. Reproductive Disorders/Female - menstrual cramps, menstrual disorder. Respiratory System Disorders - bronchitis, coughing, nasal congestion, sinus congestion, sinus headache. Skin and Appendages Disorders - rash. Special Senses - vision blurred, tinnitus. Urinary System Disorders - urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience Adverse Reactions Reported Subsequent to the Marketing of Escitalopram The following additional adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous reports of escitalopram received worldwide. These adverse reactions have been chosen for inclusion because of a combination of seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to escitalopram and have not been listed elsewhere in labeling. However, because these adverse reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events include: Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: anemia, agranulocytis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia. Cardiac Disorders: atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac failure, myocardial infarction, tachycardia, torsade de pointes, ventricular arrhythmia, ventricular tachycardia. Ear and labyrinth disorders: vertigo Endocrine Disorders: diabetes mellitus, hyperprolactinemia, SIADH. Eye Disorders: angle closure glaucoma, diplopia, mydriasis, visual disturbance. Gastrointestinal Disorder: dysphagia, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, gastroesophageal reflux, pancreatitis, rectal hemorrhage. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: abnormal gait, asthenia, edema, fall, feeling abnormal, malaise. Hepatobiliary Disorders: fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatitis. Immune System Disorders: allergic reaction, anaphylaxis. Investigations: bilirubin increased, decreased weight, electrocardiogram QT prolongation, hepatic enzymes increased, hypercholesterolemia, INR increased, prothrombin decreased. Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: muscle cramp, muscle stiffness, muscle weakness, rhabdomyolysis. Nervous System Disorders: akathisia, amnesia, ataxia, choreoathetosis, cerebrovascular accident, dysarthria, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorders, grand mal seizures (or convulsions), hypoaesthesia, myoclonus, nystagmus, Parkinsonism, restless legs, seizures, syncope, tardive dyskinesia, tremor. Pregnancy, Puerperium and Perinatal Conditions: spontaneous abortion. Psychiatric Disorders: acute psychosis, aggression, agitation, anger, anxiety, apathy, completed suicide, confusion, depersonalization, depression aggravated, delirium, delusion, disorientation, feeling unreal, hallucinations (visual and auditory), mood swings, nervousness, nightmare, panic reaction, paranoia, restlessness, self-harm or thoughts of self-harm, suicide attempt, suicidal ideation, suicidal tendency. Renal and Urinary Disorders: acute renal failure, dysuria, urinary retention. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: menorrhagia, priapism. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: dyspnea, epistaxis, pulmonary embolism, pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: alopecia, angioedema, dermatitis, ecchymosis, erythema multiforme, photosensitivity reaction, Stevens Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria. Vascular Disorders: deep vein thrombosis, flushing, hypertensive crisis, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, phlebitis, thrombosis."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (>=2%) are nausea, headache, diarrhea, vomiting, and dizziness. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be compared directly to rates from clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect rates observed in practice. Adverse reactions were evaluated for 1050 patients treated with SIVEXTRO and 662 patients treated with the comparator antibacterial drug in two Phase 2 and two Phase 3 clinical trials. The median age of patients treated with SIVEXTRO in the Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials was 42 years, ranging between 17 and 86 years old. Patients treated with SIVEXTRO were predominantly male (65%) and White (82%). Serious Adverse Reactions and Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Serious adverse reactions occurred in 12/662 (1.8%) of patients treated with SIVEXTRO and in 13/662 (2.0%) of patients treated with the comparator. SIVEXTRO was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 3/662 (0.5%) of patients and the comparator was discontinued due to an adverse reaction in 6/662 (0.9%) of patients. Most Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions in patients treated with SIVEXTRO were nausea (8%), headache (6%), diarrhea (4%), vomiting (3%), and dizziness (2%). The median time of onset of adverse reactions was 5 days for both SIVEXTRO and linezolid with 12% occurring on the second day of treatment in both treatment groups. Table 2 lists selected adverse reactions occurring in at least 2% of patients treated with SIVEXTRO in clinical trials. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactions Occurring in >=2% of Patients Receiving SIVEXTRO in the Pooled Phase 3 ABSSSI Clinical Trials Adverse Reactions Pooled Phase 3 ABSSSI Clinical Trials SIVEXTRO (200 mg oral/intravenous once daily for 6 days) (N=662) Linezolid (600 mg oral/intravenous twice daily for 10 days) (N=662) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 8% 12% Diarrhea 4% 5% Vomiting 3% 6% Nervous System Disorder Headache 6% 6% Dizziness 2% 2% The following selected adverse reactions were reported in SIVEXTRO-treated patients at a rate of less than 2% in these clinical trials: Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: anemia Cardiovascular: palpitations, tachycardia Eye Disorders: asthenopia, vision blurred, visual impairment, vitreous floaters General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: infusion-related reactions Immune System Disorders: drug hypersensitivity Infections and Infestations: Clostridium difficile colitis, oral candidiasis, vulvovaginal mycotic infection Investigations: hepatic transaminases increased, white blood cell count decreased Nervous System Disorders: hypoesthesia, paresthesia, VIIth nerve paralysis Psychiatric Disorders: insomnia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: pruritus, urticaria, dermatitis Vascular Disorders: flushing, hypertension Laboratory Parameters Hematology laboratory abnormalities that were determined to be potentially clinically significant in the pooled Phase 3 ABSSSI clinical trials are provided in Table 3. Table 3: Potentially Clinically Significant Lowest Laboratory Values in the Pooled Phase 3 ABSSSI Clinical Trials Laboratory Assay Potentially Clinically Significant Values<75% (<50% for absolute neutrophil count) of lower limit of normal (LLN) for values normal at baseline Represents lowest abnormal post-baseline value through the last dose of active drug SIVEXTRO (200 mg oral/intravenous once daily for 6 days) (N=618)Number of patients with non-missing laboratory values Linezolid (600 mg oral/intravenous twice daily for 10 days) (N=617) M = male; F = female Hemoglobin (<10.1 g/dL [M]) (<9 g/dL [F]) 3.1% 3.7% Platelet count (<112 \\303\\227 103/mm3) 2.3% 4.9% Absolute neutrophil count (<0.8 \\303\\227 103/mm3) 0.5% 0.6% Myelosuppression Phase 1 studies conducted in healthy adults exposed to SIVEXTRO for 21 days showed a possible dose and duration effect on hematologic parameters beyond 6 days of treatment. In the Phase 3 trials, clinically significant changes in these parameters were generally similar for both treatment arms (see Table 3). Peripheral and Optic Neuropathy Peripheral and optic neuropathy have been described in patients treated with another member of the oxazolidinone class for longer than 28 days. In Phase 3 trials, reported adverse reactions for peripheral neuropathy and optic nerve disorders were similar between both treatment arms (peripheral neuropathy 1.2% vs. 0.6% for tedizolid phosphate and linezolid, respectively; optic nerve disorders 0.3% vs. 0.2%, respectively). No data are available for patients exposed to SIVEXTRO for longer than 6 days."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety profile of COREG CR was similar to that observed for immediate-release carvedilol. Most common adverse events seen with immediate-release carvedilol. (6.1): Heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction (>=10%): Dizziness, fatigue, hypotension, diarrhea, hyperglycemia, asthenia, bradycardia, weight increase Hypertension (>=5%): Dizziness To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in patients with heart failure (mild, moderate, and severe), in patients with left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction, and in hypertensive patients. The observed adverse event profile was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the health status of the patients in the clinical trials. Adverse events reported for each of these patient populations reflecting the use of either COREG CR or immediate-release carvedilol are provided below. Excluded are adverse events considered too general to be informative, and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug because they were associated with the condition being treated or are very common in the treated population. Rates of adverse events were generally similar across demographic subsets (men and women, elderly and non-elderly, blacks and non-blacks). COREG CR has been evaluated for safety in a 4-week (2 weeks of immediate-release carvedilol and 2 weeks of COREG CR) clinical study (n = 187) which included 157 patients with stable mild, moderate, or severe chronic heart failure and 30 patients with left ventricular dysfunction following acute myocardial infarction. The profile of adverse events observed with COREG CR in this small, short-term study was generally similar to that observed with immediate-release carvedilol. Differences in safety would not be expected based on the similarity in plasma levels for COREG CR and immediate-release carvedilol. Heart Failure The following information describes the safety experience in heart failure with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in heart failure in more than 4,500 patients worldwide of whom more than 2,100 participated in placebo-controlled clinical trials. Approximately 60% of the total treated population in placebo-controlled clinical trials received carvedilol for at least 6 months and 30% received carvedilol for at least 12 months. In the COMET trial, 1,511 patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure were treated with carvedilol for up to 5.9 years (mean 4.8 years). Both in US clinical trials in mild-to-moderate heart failure that compared carvedilol in daily doses up to 100 mg (n = 765) to placebo (n = 437), and in a multinational clinical trial in severe heart failure (COPERNICUS) that compared carvedilol in daily doses up to 50 mg (n = 1,156) with placebo (n = 1,133), discontinuation rates for adverse experiences were similar in carvedilol and placebo patients. In placebo-controlled clinical trials, the only cause of discontinuation >1%, and occurring more often on carvedilol was dizziness (1.3% on carvedilol, 0.6% on placebo in the COPERNICUS trial). Table 2 shows adverse events reported in patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure enrolled in US placebo-controlled clinical trials, and with severe heart failure enrolled in the COPERNICUS trial. Shown are adverse events that occurred more frequently in drug-treated patients than placebo-treated patients with an incidence of >3% in patients treated with carvedilol regardless of causality. Median study medication exposure was 6.3 months for both carvedilol and placebo patients in the trials of mild-to-moderate heart failure, and 10.4 months in the trial of severe heart failure patients. The adverse event profile of carvedilol observed in the long-term COMET study was generally similar to that observed in the US Heart Failure Trials. Table 2. Adverse Events (%) Occurring More Frequently With Immediate-Release Carvedilol Than With Placebo in Patients With Mild-to-Moderate Heart Failure (HF) Enrolled in US Heart Failure Trials or in Patients With Severe Heart Failure in the COPERNICUS Trial (Incidence >3% in Patients Treated With Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality) Mild-to-Moderate HF Severe HF Carvedilol Placebo Carvedilol Placebo (n = 765) (n = 437) (n = 1,156) (n = 1,133) Body as a Whole Asthenia 7 7 11 9 Fatigue 24 22 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Digoxin level increased 5 4 2 1 Edema generalized 5 3 6 5 Edema dependent 4 2 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Cardiovascular Bradycardia 9 1 10 3 Hypotension 9 3 14 8 Syncope 3 3 8 5 Angina pectoris 2 3 6 4 Central Nervous System Dizziness 32 19 24 17 Headache 8 7 5 3 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 12 6 5 3 Nausea 9 5 4 3 Vomiting 6 4 1 2 Metabolic Hyperglycemia 12 8 5 3 Weight increase 10 7 12 11 BUN increased 6 5 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 NPN increased 6 5 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Hypercholesterolemia 4 3 1 1 Edema peripheral 2 1 7 6 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 6 5 1 1 Respiratory Cough increased 8 9 5 4 Rales 4 4 4 2 Vision Vision abnormal 5 2 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Cardiac failure and dyspnea were also reported in these studies, but the rates were equal or greater in patients who received placebo. The following adverse events were reported with a frequency of >1% but <=3% and more frequently with carvedilol in either the US placebo-controlled trials in patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure, or in patients with severe heart failure in the COPERNICUS trial. Incidence >1% to <=3% Body as a Whole: Allergy, malaise, hypovolemia, fever, leg edema. Cardiovascular: Fluid overload, postural hypotension, aggravated angina pectoris, AV block, palpitation, hypertension. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Hypesthesia, vertigo, paresthesia. Gastrointestinal: Melena, periodontitis. Liver and Biliary System: SGPT increased, SGOT increased. Metabolic and Nutritional: Hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, increased alkaline phosphatase, glycosuria, hypervolemia, diabetes mellitus, GGT increased, weight loss, hyperkalemia, creatinine increased. Musculoskeletal: Muscle cramps. Platelet, Bleeding and Clotting: Prothrombin decreased, purpura, thrombocytopenia. Psychiatric: Somnolence. Reproductive, male: Impotence. Special Senses: Blurred vision. Urinary System: Renal insufficiency, albuminuria, hematuria. Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction The following information describes the safety experience in left ventricular dysfunction following acute myocardial infarction with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction in the CAPRICORN trial which involved 969 patients who received carvedilol and 980 who received placebo. Approximately 75% of the patients received carvedilol for at least 6 months and 53% received carvedilol for at least 12 months. Patients were treated for an average of 12.9 months and 12.8 months with carvedilol and placebo, respectively. The most common adverse events reported with carvedilol in the CAPRICORN trial were consistent with the profile of the drug in the US heart failure trials and the COPERNICUS trial. The only additional adverse events reported in CAPRICORN in >3% of the patients and more commonly on carvedilol were dyspnea, anemia, and lung edema. The following adverse events were reported with a frequency of >1% but <=3% and more frequently with carvedilol: Flu syndrome, cerebrovascular accident, peripheral vascular disorder, hypotonia, depression, gastrointestinal pain, arthritis, and gout. The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar in both groups of patients. In this database, the only cause of discontinuation >1%, and occurring more often on carvedilol was hypotension (1.5% on carvedilol, 0.2% on placebo). Hypertension COREG CR was evaluated for safety in an 8-week double-blind trial in 337 subjects with essential hypertension. The profile of adverse events observed with COREG CR was generally similar to that observed with immediate-release carvedilol. The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar between COREG CR and placebo. Table 3. Adverse Events (%) Occurring More Frequently With COREG CR Than With Placebo in Patients With Hypertension (Incidence >=1% in Patients Treated With Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality) COREG CR(n = 253) Placebo(n = 84) Nasopharyngitis 4 0 Dizziness 2 1 Nausea 2 0 Edema peripheral 2 1 Nasal congestion 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Sinus congestion 1 0 Diarrhea 1 0 Insomnia 1 0 The following information describes the safety experience in hypertension with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in hypertension in more than 2,193 patients in US clinical trials and in 2,976 patients in international clinical trials. Approximately 36% of the total treated population received carvedilol for at least 6 months. In general, carvedilol was well tolerated at doses up to 50 mg daily. Most adverse events reported during carvedilol therapy were of mild to moderate severity. In US controlled clinical trials directly comparing carvedilol monotherapy in doses up to 50 mg (n = 1,142) to placebo (n = 462), 4.9% of carvedilol patients discontinued for adverse events versus 5.2% of placebo patients. Although there was no overall difference in discontinuation rates, discontinuations were more common in the carvedilol group for postural hypotension (1% versus 0). The overall incidence of adverse events in US placebo-controlled trials was found to increase with increasing dose of carvedilol. For individual adverse events this could only be distinguished for dizziness, which increased in frequency from 2% to 5% as total daily dose increased from 6.25 mg to 50 mg as single or divided doses. Table 4 shows adverse events in US placebo-controlled clinical trials for hypertension that occurred with an incidence of >=1% regardless of causality, and that were more frequent in drug-treated patients than placebo-treated patients. Table 4. Adverse Events (% Occurrence) in US Placebo-Controlled Hypertension Trials With Immediate-Release Carvedilol (Incidence >=1% in Patients Treated With Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality)* Carvedilol(n = 1,142) Placebo(n = 462) Cardiovascular Bradycardia 2 \\342\\200\\224 Postural hypotension 2 \\342\\200\\224 Peripheral edema 1 \\342\\200\\224 Central Nervous System Dizziness 6 5 Insomnia 2 1 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 2 1 Hematologic Thrombocytopenia 1 \\342\\200\\224 Metabolic Hypertriglyceridemia 1 \\342\\200\\224 * Shown are events with rate >1% rounded to nearest integer. Dyspnea and fatigue were also reported in these studies, but the rates were equal or greater in patients who received placebo. The following adverse events not described above were reported as possibly or probably related to carvedilol in worldwide open or controlled trials with carvedilol in patients with hypertension or heart failure. Incidence >0.1% to <=1% Cardiovascular: Peripheral ischemia, tachycardia. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Hypokinesia. Gastrointestinal: Bilirubinemia, increased hepatic enzymes (0.2% of hypertension patients and 0.4% of heart failure patients were discontinued from therapy because of increases in hepatic enzymes) [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Psychiatric: Nervousness, sleep disorder, aggravated depression, impaired concentration, abnormal thinking, paroniria, emotional lability. Respiratory System: Asthma [see Contraindications (4)]. Reproductive, male: Decreased libido. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus, rash erythematous, rash maculopapular, rash psoriaform, photosensitivity reaction. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urinary System: Micturition frequency increased. Autonomic Nervous System: Dry mouth, sweating increased. Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypokalemia, hypertriglyceridemia. Hematologic: Anemia, leukopenia. The following events were reported in <=0.1% of patients and are potentially important: Complete AV block, bundle branch block, myocardial ischemia, cerebrovascular disorder, convulsions, migraine, neuralgia, paresis, anaphylactoid reaction, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, amnesia, GI hemorrhage, bronchospasm, pulmonary edema, decreased hearing, respiratory alkalosis, increased BUN, decreased HDL, pancytopenia, and atypical lymphocytes. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Reversible elevations in serum transaminases (ALT or AST) have been observed during treatment with carvedilol. Rates of transaminase elevations (2- to 3-times the upper limit of normal) observed during controlled clinical trials have generally been similar between patients treated with carvedilol and those treated with placebo. However, transaminase elevations, confirmed by rechallenge, have been observed with carvedilol. In a long-term, placebo-controlled trial in severe heart failure, patients treated with carvedilol had lower values for hepatic transaminases than patients treated with placebo, possibly because carvedilol-induced improvements in cardiac function led to less hepatic congestion and/or improved hepatic blood flow. Carvedilol therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in serum potassium, total triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, or creatinine. No clinically relevant changes were noted in fasting serum glucose in hypertensive patients; fasting serum glucose was not evaluated in the heart failure clinical trials. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of COREG(R) or COREG CR. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Reports of aplastic anemia and severe skin reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and erythema multiforme) have been rare and received only when carvedilol was administered concomitantly with other medications associated with such reactions. Rare reports of hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylactic reaction, angioedema, and urticaria) have been received for COREG and COREG CR, including cases occurring after the initiation of COREG CR in patients previously treated with COREG. Urinary incontinence in women (which resolved upon discontinuation of the medication) and interstitial pneumonitis have been reported rarely."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety profile of COREG CR was similar to that observed for immediate-release carvedilol. Most common adverse events seen with immediate-release carvedilol ( ): 6.1 Heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction (>=10%): Dizziness, fatigue, hypotension, diarrhea, hyperglycemia, asthenia, bradycardia, weight increase. - Hypertension (>=5%): Dizziness. - To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in subjects with heart failure (mild, moderate, and severe), in subjects with left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction, and in hypertensive subjects. The observed adverse event profile was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the health status of the subjects in the clinical trials. Adverse events reported for each of these populations reflecting the use of either COREG CR or immediate-release carvedilol are provided below. Excluded are adverse events considered too general to be informative, and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug because they were associated with the condition being treated or are very common in the treated population. Rates of adverse events were generally similar across demographic subsets (men and women, elderly and non-elderly, blacks and non-blacks). COREG CR has been evaluated for safety in a 4-week (2 weeks of immediate-release carvedilol and 2 weeks of COREG CR) clinical trial (n = 187) which included 157 subjects with stable mild, moderate, or severe chronic heart failure and 30 subjects with left ventricular dysfunction following acute myocardial infarction. The profile of adverse events observed with COREG CR in this small, short-term trial was generally similar to that observed with immediate-release carvedilol. Differences in safety would not be expected based on the similarity in plasma levels for COREG CR and immediate-release carvedilol. Heart Failure The following information describes the safety experience in heart failure with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in heart failure in more than 4,500 subjects worldwide of whom more than 2,100 participated in placebo-controlled clinical trials. Approximately 60% of the total treated population in placebo-controlled clinical trials received carvedilol for at least 6 months and 30% received carvedilol for at least 12 months. In the COMET trial, 1,511 subjects with mild-to-moderate heart failure were treated with carvedilol for up to 5.9 years (mean: 4.8 years). Both in US clinical trials in mild-to-moderate heart failure that compared carvedilol in daily doses up to 100 mg (n = 765) with placebo (n = 437), and in a multinational clinical trial in severe heart failure (COPERNICUS) that compared carvedilol in daily doses up to 50 mg (n = 1,156) with placebo (n = 1,133), discontinuation rates for adverse experiences were similar in carvedilol and placebo subjects. In placebo-controlled clinical trials, the only cause of discontinuation >1%, and occurring more often on carvedilol was dizziness (1.3% on carvedilol, 0.6% on placebo in the COPERNICUS trial). Table 2 shows adverse events reported in subjects with mild-to-moderate heart failure enrolled in US placebo-controlled clinical trials, and with severe heart failure enrolled in the COPERNICUS trial. Shown are adverse events that occurred more frequently in drug-treated subjects than placebo-treated subjects with an incidence of >3% in subjects treated with carvedilol regardless of causality. Median trial medication exposure was 6.3 months for both carvedilol and placebo subjects in the trials of mild-to-moderate heart failure, and 10.4 months in the trial of subjects with severe heart failure. The adverse event profile of carvedilol observed in the long-term COMET trial was generally similar to that observed in the US Heart Failure Trials. Table 2. Adverse Events (%) Occurring More Frequently With Immediate-Release Carvedilol Than With Placebo in Subjects With Mild-to-Moderate Heart Failure (HF) Enrolled in US Heart Failure Trials or in Subjects With Severe Heart Failure in the COPERNICUS Trial (Incidence >3% in Subjects Treated With Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality) Body System/ Adverse Event Mild-to-Moderate HF Severe HF Carvedilol Placebo Carvedilol Placebo (n = 765) (n = 437) (n = 1,156) (n = 1,133) Body as a Whole Asthenia 7 7 11 9 Fatigue 24 22 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Digoxin level increased 5 4 2 1 Edema generalized 5 3 6 5 Edema dependent 4 2 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Cardiovascular Bradycardia 9 1 10 3 Hypotension 9 3 14 8 Syncope 3 3 8 5 Angina pectoris 2 3 6 4 Central Nervous System Dizziness 32 19 24 17 Headache 8 7 5 3 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 12 6 5 3 Nausea 9 5 4 3 Vomiting 6 4 1 2 Metabolic Hyperglycemia 12 8 5 3 Weight increase 10 7 12 11 BUN increased 6 5 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 NPN increased 6 5 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Hypercholesterolemia 4 3 1 1 Edema peripheral 2 1 7 6 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 6 5 1 1 Respiratory Cough increased 8 9 5 4 Rales 4 4 4 2 Vision Vision abnormal 5 2 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Cardiac failure and dyspnea were also reported in these trials, but the rates were equal or greater in subjects who received placebo. The following adverse events were reported with a frequency of >1% but <=3% and more frequently with carvedilol in either the US placebo-controlled trials in subjects with mild-to-moderate heart failure, or in subjects with severe heart failure in the COPERNICUS trial. Incidence >1% to <=3% Allergy, malaise, hypovolemia, fever, leg edema. Body as a Whole: Fluid overload, postural hypotension, aggravated angina pectoris, AV block, palpitation, hypertension. Cardiovascular: Hypesthesia, vertigo, paresthesia. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Melena, periodontitis. Gastrointestinal: SGPT increased, SGOT increased. Liver and Biliary System: Hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, increased alkaline phosphatase, glycosuria, hypervolemia, diabetes mellitus, GGT increased, weight loss, hyperkalemia, creatinine increased. Metabolic and Nutritional: Muscle cramps. Musculoskeletal: Prothrombin decreased, purpura, thrombocytopenia. Platelet, Bleeding, and Clotting: Somnolence. Psychiatric: Impotence. Reproductive, male: Blurred vision. Special Senses: Renal insufficiency, albuminuria, hematuria. Urinary System: Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction The following information describes the safety experience in left ventricular dysfunction following acute myocardial infarction with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction in the CAPRICORN trial which involved 969 subjects who received carvedilol and 980 who received placebo. Approximately 75% of the subjects received carvedilol for at least 6 months and 53% received carvedilol for at least 12 months. Subjects were treated for an average of 12.9 months and 12.8 months with carvedilol and placebo, respectively. The most common adverse events reported with carvedilol in the CAPRICORN trial were consistent with the profile of the drug in the US heart failure trials and the COPERNICUS trial. The only additional adverse events reported in CAPRICORN in >3% of the subjects and more commonly on carvedilol were dyspnea, anemia, and lung edema. The following adverse events were reported with a frequency of >1% but <=3% and more frequently with carvedilol: flu syndrome, cerebrovascular accident, peripheral vascular disorder, hypotonia, depression, gastrointestinal pain, arthritis, and gout. The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar in both groups of subjects. In this database, the only cause of discontinuation >1%, and occurring more often on carvedilol was hypotension (1.5% on carvedilol, 0.2% on placebo). Hypertension COREG CR was evaluated for safety in an 8-week double-blind trial in 337 subjects with essential hypertension. The profile of adverse events observed with COREG CR was generally similar to that observed with immediate-release carvedilol. The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar between COREG CR and placebo. Table 3. Adverse Events (%) Occurring More Frequently With COREG CR Than With Placebo in Subjects With Hypertension (Incidence >=1% in Subjects Treated With Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality) Adverse Event COREG CR (n = 253) Placebo (n = 84) Nasopharyngitis 4 0 Dizziness 2 1 Nausea 2 0 Edema peripheral 2 1 Nasal congestion 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Sinus congestion 1 0 Diarrhea 1 0 Insomnia 1 0 The following information describes the safety experience in hypertension with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in hypertension in more than 2,193 subjects in US clinical trials and in 2,976 subjects in international clinical trials. Approximately 36% of the total treated population received carvedilol for at least 6 months. In general, carvedilol was well tolerated at doses up to 50 mg daily. Most adverse events reported during carvedilol therapy were of mild to moderate severity. In US controlled clinical trials directly comparing carvedilol monotherapy in doses up to 50 mg (n = 1,142) with placebo (n = 462), 4.9% of carvedilol subjects discontinued for adverse events versus 5.2% of placebo subjects. Although there was no overall difference in discontinuation rates, discontinuations were more common in the carvedilol group for postural hypotension (1% versus 0). The overall incidence of adverse events in US placebo-controlled trials was found to increase with increasing dose of carvedilol. For individual adverse events this could only be distinguished for dizziness, which increased in frequency from 2% to 5% as total daily dose increased from 6.25 mg to 50 mg as single or divided doses. Table 4 shows adverse events in US placebo-controlled clinical trials for hypertension that occurred with an incidence of >=1% regardless of causality, and that were more frequent in drug-treated subjects than placebo-treated subjects. Table 4. Adverse Events (% Occurrence) in US Placebo-Controlled Hypertension Trials With Immediate-Release Carvedilol (Incidence >=1% in Subjects Treated With Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality) * Adverse Event Carvedilol (n = 1,142) Placebo (n = 462) Cardiovascular Bradycardia 2 \\342\\200\\224 Postural hypotension 2 \\342\\200\\224 Peripheral edema 1 \\342\\200\\224 Central Nervous System Dizziness 6 5 Insomnia 2 1 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 2 1 Hematologic Thrombocytopenia 1 \\342\\200\\224 Metabolic Hypertriglyceridemia 1 \\342\\200\\224 Shown are events with rate >1% rounded to nearest integer. * Dyspnea and fatigue were also reported in these trials, but the rates were equal or greater in subjects who received placebo. The following adverse events not described above were reported as possibly or probably related to carvedilol in worldwide open or controlled trials with carvedilol in subjects with hypertension or heart failure. Incidence >0.1% to <=1% Peripheral ischemia, tachycardia. Cardiovascular: Hypokinesia. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Bilirubinemia, increased hepatic enzymes (0.2% of hypertension patients and 0.4% of heart failure patients were discontinued from therapy because of increases in hepatic enzymes) . Gastrointestinal: [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] Nervousness, sleep disorder, aggravated depression, impaired concentration, abnormal thinking, paroniria, emotional lability. Psychiatric: Asthma . Respiratory System: [see Contraindications (4)] Decreased libido. Reproductive, male: Pruritus, rash erythematous, rash maculopapular, rash psoriaform, photosensitivity reaction. Skin and Appendages: Tinnitus. Special Senses: Micturition frequency increased. Urinary System: Dry mouth, sweating increased. Autonomic Nervous System: Hypokalemia, hypertriglyceridemia. Metabolic and Nutritional: Anemia, leukopenia. Hematologic: The following events were reported in <=0.1% of subjects and are potentially important: complete AV block, bundle branch block, myocardial ischemia, cerebrovascular disorder, convulsions, migraine, neuralgia, paresis, anaphylactoid reaction, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, amnesia, GI hemorrhage, bronchospasm, pulmonary edema, decreased hearing, respiratory alkalosis, increased BUN, decreased HDL, pancytopenia, and atypical lymphocytes. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Reversible elevations in serum transaminases (ALT or AST) have been observed during treatment with carvedilol. Rates of transaminase elevations (2 to 3 times the upper limit of normal) observed during controlled clinical trials have generally been similar between subjects treated with carvedilol and those treated with placebo. However, transaminase elevations, confirmed by rechallenge, have been observed with carvedilol. In a long-term, placebo-controlled trial in severe heart failure, subjects treated with carvedilol had lower values for hepatic transaminases than subjects treated with placebo, possibly because carvedilol-induced improvements in cardiac function led to less hepatic congestion and/or improved hepatic blood flow. Carvedilol therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in serum potassium, total triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, or creatinine. No clinically relevant changes were noted in fasting serum glucose in hypertensive subjects; fasting serum glucose was not evaluated in the heart failure clinical trials. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of COREG or COREG CR. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. (R) Aplastic anemia. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions, angioedema, urticaria). Immune System Disorders: Urinary incontinence. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Interstitial pneumonitis. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders:"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety profile of COREG CR was similar to that observed for immediate-release carvedilol. Most common adverse events seen with immediate-release carvedilol (6.1): -Heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction (>=10%): Dizziness, fatigue, hypotension, diarrhea, hyperglycemia, asthenia, bradycardia, weight increase. -Hypertension (>=5%): Dizziness. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in subjects with heart failure (mild, moderate, and severe), in subjects with left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction, and in hypertensive subjects. The observed adverse event profile was consistent with the pharmacology of the drug and the health status of the subjects in the clinical trials. Adverse events reported for each of these populations reflecting the use of either COREG CR or immediate-release carvedilol are provided below. Excluded are adverse events considered too general to be informative, and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug because they were associated with the condition being treated or are very common in the treated population. Rates of adverse events were generally similar across demographic subsets (men and women, elderly and non-elderly, blacks and non-blacks). COREG CR has been evaluated for safety in a 4-week (2 weeks of immediate-release carvedilol and 2 weeks of COREG CR) clinical trial (n = 187) which included 157 subjects with stable mild, moderate, or severe chronic heart failure and 30 subjects with left ventricular dysfunction following acute myocardial infarction. The profile of adverse events observed with COREG CR in this small, short-term trial was generally similar to that observed with immediate-release carvedilol. Differences in safety would not be expected based on the similarity in plasma levels for COREG CR and immediate-release carvedilol. Heart Failure The following information describes the safety experience in heart failure with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in heart failure in more than 4,500 subjects worldwide of whom more than 2,100 participated in placebo-controlled clinical trials. Approximately 60% of the total treated population in placebo-controlled clinical trials received carvedilol for at least 6 months and 30% received carvedilol for at least 12 months. In the COMET trial, 1,511 subjects with mild-to-moderate heart failure were treated with carvedilol for up to 5.9 years (mean: 4.8 years). Both in US clinical trials in mild-to-moderate heart failure that compared carvedilol in daily doses up to 100 mg (n = 765) with placebo (n = 437), and in a multinational clinical trial in severe heart failure (COPERNICUS) that compared carvedilol in daily doses up to 50 mg (n = 1,156) with placebo (n = 1,133), discontinuation rates for adverse experiences were similar in carvedilol and placebo subjects. In placebo-controlled clinical trials, the only cause of discontinuation greater than 1%, and occurring more often on carvedilol was dizziness (1.3% on carvedilol, 0.6% on placebo in the COPERNICUS trial). Table 2 shows adverse events reported in subjects with mild-to-moderate heart failure enrolled in US placebo-controlled clinical trials, and with severe heart failure enrolled in the COPERNICUS trial. Shown are adverse events that occurred more frequently in drug-treated subjects than placebo-treated subjects with an incidence of greater than 3% in subjects treated with carvedilol regardless of causality. Median trial medication exposure was 6.3 months for both carvedilol and placebo subjects in the trials of mild-to-moderate heart failure, and 10.4 months in the trial of subjects with severe heart failure. The adverse event profile of carvedilol observed in the long-term COMET trial was generally similar to that observed in the US Heart Failure Trials. Table 2. Adverse Events (%) Occurring More Frequently with Immediate-Release Carvedilol than with Placebo in Subjects with Mild-to-Moderate Heart Failure (HF) Enrolled in US Heart Failure Trials or in Subjects with Severe Heart Failure in the COPERNICUS Trial (Incidence >3% in Subjects Treated with Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality) Body System/ Adverse Event Mild-to-Moderate HF Severe HF Carvedilol Placebo Carvedilol Placebo (n = 765) (n = 437) (n = 1,156) (n = 1,133) Body as a Whole Asthenia 7 7 11 9 Fatigue 24 22 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Digoxin level increased 5 4 2 1 Edema generalized 5 3 6 5 Edema dependent 4 2 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Cardiovascular Bradycardia 9 1 10 3 Hypotension 9 3 14 8 Syncope 3 3 8 5 Angina pectoris 2 3 6 4 Central Nervous System Dizziness 32 19 24 17 Headache 8 7 5 3 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 12 6 5 3 Nausea 9 5 4 3 Vomiting 6 4 1 2 Metabolic Hyperglycemia 12 8 5 3 Weight increase 10 7 12 11 BUN increased 6 5 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 NPN increased 6 5 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Hypercholesterolemia 4 3 1 1 Edema peripheral 2 1 7 6 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 6 5 1 1 Respiratory Cough increased 8 9 5 4 Rales 4 4 4 2 Vision Vision abnormal 5 2 \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 Cardiac failure and dyspnea were also reported in these trials, but the rates were equal or greater in subjects who received placebo. The following adverse events were reported with a frequency of greater than 1% but less than or equal to 3% and more frequently with carvedilol in either the US placebo-controlled trials in subjects with mild-to-moderate heart failure, or in subjects with severe heart failure in the COPERNICUS trial. Incidence greater than 1% to less than or equal to 3% Body as a Whole: Allergy, malaise, hypovolemia, fever, leg edema. Cardiovascular: Fluid overload, postural hypotension, aggravated angina pectoris, AV block, palpitation, hypertension. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Hypesthesia, vertigo, paresthesia. Gastrointestinal: Melena, periodontitis. Liver and Biliary System: SGPT increased, SGOT increased. Metabolic and Nutritional: Hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, increased alkaline phosphatase, glycosuria, hypervolemia, diabetes mellitus, GGT increased, weight loss, hyperkalemia, creatinine increased. Musculoskeletal: Muscle cramps. Platelet, Bleeding, and Clotting: Prothrombin decreased, purpura, thrombocytopenia. Psychiatric: Somnolence. Reproductive, male: Impotence. Special Senses: Blurred vision. Urinary System: Renal insufficiency, albuminuria, hematuria. Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction The following information describes the safety experience in left ventricular dysfunction following acute myocardial infarction with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in survivors of an acute myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction in the CAPRICORN trial which involved 969 subjects who received carvedilol and 980 who received placebo. Approximately 75% of the subjects received carvedilol for at least 6 months and 53% received carvedilol for at least 12 months. Subjects were treated for an average of 12.9 months and 12.8 months with carvedilol and placebo, respectively. The most common adverse events reported with carvedilol in the CAPRICORN trial were consistent with the profile of the drug in the US heart failure trials and the COPERNICUS trial. The only additional adverse events reported in CAPRICORN in greater than 3% of the subjects and more commonly on carvedilol were dyspnea, anemia, and lung edema. The following adverse events were reported with a frequency of greater than 1% but less than or equal to 3% and more frequently with carvedilol: flu syndrome, cerebrovascular accident, peripheral vascular disorder, hypotonia, depression, gastrointestinal pain, arthritis, and gout. The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar in both groups of subjects. In this database, the only cause of discontinuation greater than 1%, and occurring more often on carvedilol was hypotension (1.5% on carvedilol, 0.2% on placebo). Hypertension COREG CR was evaluated for safety in an 8-week double-blind trial in 337 subjects with essential hypertension. The profile of adverse events observed with COREG CR was generally similar to that observed with immediate-release carvedilol. The overall rates of discontinuations due to adverse events were similar between COREG CR and placebo. Table 3. Adverse Events (%) Occurring More Frequently with COREG CR than with Placebo in Subjects with Hypertension (Incidence >=1% in Subjects Treated with Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality) Adverse Event COREG CR (n = 253) Placebo (n = 84) Nasopharyngitis 4 0 Dizziness 2 1 Nausea 2 0 Edema peripheral 2 1 Nasal congestion 1 0 Paresthesia 1 0 Sinus congestion 1 0 Diarrhea 1 0 Insomnia 1 0 The following information describes the safety experience in hypertension with immediate-release carvedilol. Carvedilol has been evaluated for safety in hypertension in more than 2,193 subjects in US clinical trials and in 2,976 subjects in international clinical trials. Approximately 36% of the total treated population received carvedilol for at least 6 months. In general, carvedilol was well tolerated at doses up to 50 mg daily. Most adverse events reported during carvedilol therapy were of mild to moderate severity. In US controlled clinical trials directly comparing carvedilol monotherapy in doses up to 50 mg (n = 1,142) with placebo (n = 462), 4.9% of carvedilol subjects discontinued for adverse events versus 5.2% of placebo subjects. Although there was no overall difference in discontinuation rates, discontinuations were more common in the carvedilol group for postural hypotension (1% versus 0). The overall incidence of adverse events in US placebo-controlled trials was found to increase with increasing dose of carvedilol. For individual adverse events this could only be distinguished for dizziness, which increased in frequency from 2% to 5% as total daily dose increased from 6.25 mg to 50 mg as single or divided doses. Table 4 shows adverse events in US placebo-controlled clinical trials for hypertension that occurred with an incidence of greater than or equal to 1% regardless of causality, and that were more frequent in drug-treated subjects than placebo-treated subjects. Table 4. Adverse Events (% Occurrence) in US Placebo-Controlled Hypertension Trials with Immediate-Release Carvedilol (Incidence >=1% in Subjects Treated with Carvedilol, Regardless of Causality)* Adverse Event Carvedilol (n = 1,142) Placebo (n = 462) Cardiovascular Bradycardia 2 \\342\\200\\224 Postural hypotension 2 \\342\\200\\224 Peripheral edema 1 \\342\\200\\224 Central Nervous System Dizziness 6 5 Insomnia 2 1 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 2 1 Hematologic Thrombocytopenia 1 \\342\\200\\224 Metabolic Hypertriglyceridemia 1 \\342\\200\\224 * Shown are events with rate >1% rounded to nearest integer. Dyspnea and fatigue were also reported in these trials, but the rates were equal or greater in subjects who received placebo. The following adverse events not described above were reported as possibly or probably related to carvedilol in worldwide open or controlled trials with carvedilol in subjects with hypertension or heart failure. Incidence greater than 0.1% to less than or equal to 1% Cardiovascular: Peripheral ischemia, tachycardia. Central and Peripheral Nervous System: Hypokinesia. Gastrointestinal: Bilirubinemia, increased hepatic enzymes (0.2% of hypertension patients and 0.4% of heart failure patients were discontinued from therapy because of increases in hepatic enzymes) [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Psychiatric: Nervousness, sleep disorder, aggravated depression, impaired concentration, abnormal thinking, paroniria, emotional lability. Respiratory System: Asthma [see Contraindications (4)]. Reproductive, male: Decreased libido. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus, rash erythematous, rash maculopapular, rash psoriaform, photosensitivity reaction. Special Senses: Tinnitus. Urinary System: Micturition frequency increased. Autonomic Nervous System: Dry mouth, sweating increased. Metabolic and Nutritional: Hypokalemia, hypertriglyceridemia. Hematologic: Anemia, leukopenia. The following events were reported in less than or equal to 0.1% of subjects and are potentially important: complete AV block, bundle branch block, myocardial ischemia, cerebrovascular disorder, convulsions, migraine, neuralgia, paresis, anaphylactoid reaction, alopecia, exfoliative dermatitis, amnesia, GI hemorrhage, bronchospasm, pulmonary edema, decreased hearing, respiratory alkalosis, increased BUN, decreased HDL, pancytopenia, and atypical lymphocytes. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Reversible elevations in serum transaminases (ALT or AST) have been observed during treatment with carvedilol. Rates of transaminase elevations (2 to 3 times the upper limit of normal) observed during controlled clinical trials have generally been similar between subjects treated with carvedilol and those treated with placebo. However, transaminase elevations, confirmed by rechallenge, have been observed with carvedilol. In a long-term, placebo-controlled trial in severe heart failure, subjects treated with carvedilol had lower values for hepatic transaminases than subjects treated with placebo, possibly because carvedilol-induced improvements in cardiac function led to less hepatic congestion and/or improved hepatic blood flow. Carvedilol therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in serum potassium, total triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, or creatinine. No clinically relevant changes were noted in fasting serum glucose in hypertensive subjects; fasting serum glucose was not evaluated in the heart failure clinical trials. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of COREG(R) or COREG CR. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Aplastic anemia. Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions, angioedema, urticaria). Renal and Urinary Disorders Urinary incontinence. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Interstitial pneumonitis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Ampho tercin B: There have been cases reported in which concomitant used of Amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see also potassium depleting agents) Anticholinsterase agents: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulant agents: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually result in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetic Agent: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. CYP 3A4 inducers (e.g. barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampin): Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzymes activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Orapred be increased. CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide, antibiotics): Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digititus: patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. NSAIDS, including aspirin and salicylates: Concomitant use of aspirin or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Potassium-depleting agents (e.g., diuretics, Amphotericin B): When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents, patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Skin Test: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Toxoids and live or inactivated Vaccines: Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy ma exhibit a diminished response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and liver or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Anticoagulant Agents: may enhance or diminish anticoagulant effects. Monitor coagulation indices. (7) Antidiabetic Agents: May increase blood glucose concentrations. Dose adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. (7) CYP 3A4 inducers and inhibitors: May, respectively, increase or decrease clearance of corticosteroids, necessitating dose adjustment. (7) Cyclosporine: Increase in activity of both, cyclosporine and corticosteroid when administered concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with concurrent use. (7) NSAIDS including aspirin and salicylates: Increased risk of gastrointestinal side effects. (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B: There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of Amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see also Potassium depleting agents). Anticholinesterase agents: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulant agents: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetic Agents: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. CYP 3A4 inducers (e.g. barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampin): Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Orapred be increased. CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics): Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. NSAIDS, including aspirin and salicylates: Concomitant use of aspirin or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Potassium-depleting agents (e.g., diuretics, Amphotericin B): When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents, patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Skin Tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Toxoids and live or inactivated Vaccines: Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Anticoagulant Agents: May enhance or diminish anticoagulant effects. Monitor coagulation indices. (7) Antidiabetic Agents: May increase blood glucose concentrations. Dose adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. (7) CYP 3A4 inducers and inhibitors: May, respectively, increase or decrease clearance of corticosteroids, necessitating dose adjustment. (7) Cyclosporine: Increase in activity of both, cyclosporine and corticosteroid when administered concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with concurrent use. (7) NSAIDS including aspirin and salicylates: Increased risk of gastrointestinal side effects. (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B: There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of Amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see also Potassium depleting agents). Anticholinesterase agents: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulant agents: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetic Agents: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. CYP 3A4 inducers (e.g. barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampin): Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate be increased. CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics): Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. NSAIDS, including aspirin and salicylates: Concomitant use of aspirin or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Potassium-depleting agents (e.g., diuretics, Amphotericin B): When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents, patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Skin Tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Toxoids and live or inactivated Vaccines: Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Anticoagulant Agents: May enhance or diminish anticoagulant effects. Monitor coagulation indices. (7) Antidiabetic Agents: May increase blood glucose concentrations. Dose adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. (7) CYP 3A4 inducers and inhibitors: May, respectively, increase or decrease clearance of corticosteroids, necessitating dose adjustment. (7) Cyclosporine: Increase in activity of both, cyclosporine and corticosteroid when administered concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with concurrent use. (7) NSAIDS including aspirin and salicylates: Increased risk of gastrointestinal side effects. (7)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended (7.2). Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) (7.6). 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.5 and 2.6), Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.2 Serotonergic Drugs [See Dosage and Administration (2.5 and 2.6), Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.3 Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of escitalopram with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.4 CNS Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of escitalopram, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. 7.5 Alcohol Although escitalopram did not potentiate the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial, as with other psychotropic medications, the use of alcohol by patients taking escitalopram is not recommended. 7.6 Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when escitalopram is initiated or discontinued. 7.7 Cimetidine In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram, combined administration of 400 mg/day cimetidine for 8 days resulted in an increase in citalopram AUC and Cmax of 43% and 39%, respectively. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. 7.8 Digoxin In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram, combined administration of citalopram and digoxin (single dose of 1 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or digoxin. 7.9 Lithium Coadministration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 10 days) and lithium (30 mmol/day for 5 days) had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram or lithium. Nevertheless, plasma lithium levels should be monitored with appropriate adjustment to the lithium dose in accordance with standard clinical practice. Because lithium may enhance the serotonergic effects of escitalopram, caution should be exercised when escitalopram and lithium are coadministered. 7.10 Pimozide and Celexa(R)* In a controlled study, a single dose of pimozide 2 mg co-administered with racemic citalopram 40 mg given once daily for 11 days was associated with a mean increase in QTc values of approximately 10 msec compared to pimozide given alone. Racemic citalopram did not alter the mean AUC or Cmax of pimozide. The mechanism of this pharmacodynamic interaction is not known. 7.11 Sumatriptan There have been rare postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI (e.g., fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram, escitalopram) is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised. 7.12 Theophylline Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 21 days) and the CYP1A2 substrate theophylline (single dose of 300 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. The effect of theophylline on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram was not evaluated. 7.13 Warfarin Administration of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram for 21 days did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Prothrombin time was increased by 5%, the clinical significance of which is unknown. 7.14 Carbamazepine Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. 7.15 Triazolam Combined administration of racemic citalopram (titrated to 40 mg/day for 28 days) and the CYP3A4 substrate triazolam (single dose of 0.25 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or triazolam. 7.16 Ketoconazole Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg) and ketoconazole (200 mg), a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, decreased the Cmax and AUC of ketoconazole by 21% and 10%, respectively, and did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of citalopram. 7.17 Ritonavir Combined administration of a single dose of ritonavir (600 mg), both a CYP3A4 substrate and a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, and escitalopram (20 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either ritonavir or escitalopram. 7.18 CYP3A4 and -2C19 Inhibitors In vitro studies indicated that CYP3A4 and -2C19 are the primary enzymes involved in the metabolism of escitalopram. However, coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg) and ritonavir (600 mg), a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of escitalopram. Because escitalopram is metabolized by multiple enzyme systems, inhibition of a single enzyme may not appreciably decrease escitalopram clearance. 7.19 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P4502D6 In vitro studies did not reveal an inhibitory effect of escitalopram on CYP2D6. In addition, steady state levels of racemic citalopram were not significantly different in poor metabolizers and extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers after multiple-dose administration of citalopram, suggesting that coadministration, with escitalopram, of a drug that inhibits CYP2D6, is unlikely to have clinically significant effects on escitalopram metabolism. However, there are limited in vivo data suggesting a modest CYP2D6 inhibitory effect for escitalopram, i.e., coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in Cmax and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. 7.20 Metoprolol Administration of 20 mg/day escitalopram for 21 days in healthy volunteers resulted in a 50% increase in Cmax and 82% increase in AUC of the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol (given in a single dose of 100 mg). Increased metoprolol plasma levels have been associated with decreased cardioselectivity. Coadministration of escitalopram and metoprolol had no clinically significant effects on blood pressure or heart rate. 7.21 Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies of the combined use of ECT and escitalopram."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP P450 2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase and rifampin may decrease carvedilol levels. ( , ) - 7.1 7.5 Hypotensive agents (e.g., reserpine, MAO inhibitors, clonidine) may increase the risk of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. ( ) - 7.2 Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase. ( , ) - 7.3 7.4 Both digitalis glycosides and \\316\\262-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. ( ) - 7.4 Amiodarone may increase carvedilol levels resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. ( ) - 7.6 Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may affect ECG and/or blood pressure. ( ) - 7.7 Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced. ( ) - 7.8 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol . Retrospective analysis of side effects in clinical trials showed that poor 2D6 metabolizers had a higher rate of dizziness during up-titration, presumably resulting from vasodilating effects of the higher concentrations of the \\316\\261-blocking R(+) enantiomer. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking both agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties and a drug that can deplete catecholamines (e.g., reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. Concomitant administration of clonidine with agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties may potentiate blood-pressure- and heart-rate-lowering effects. When concomitant treatment with agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties and clonidine is to be terminated, the \\316\\262-blocking agent should be discontinued first. Clonidine therapy can then be discontinued several days later by gradually decreasing the dosage. 7.3 Cyclosporine Modest increases in mean trough cyclosporine concentrations were observed following initiation of carvedilol treatment in 21 renal transplant subjects suffering from chronic vascular rejection. In about 30% of subjects, the dose of cyclosporine had to be reduced in order to maintain cyclosporine concentrations within the therapeutic range, while in the remainder no adjustment was needed. On the average for the group, the dose of cyclosporine was reduced about 20% in these subjects. Due to wide interindividual variability in the dose adjustment required, it is recommended that cyclosporine concentrations be monitored closely after initiation of carvedilol therapy and that the dose of cyclosporine be adjusted as appropriate. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and \\316\\262-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Digoxin concentrations are increased by about 15% when digoxin and carvedilol are administered concomitantly. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing COREG CR . [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)] 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70% . Cimetidine increased area under the curve (AUC) by about 30% but caused no change in C . [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)] max [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)] 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone, and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9 and P-glycoprotein, increased concentrations of the S(-) enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2-fold . The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with COREG CR may enhance the \\316\\262-blocking properties of carvedilol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Patients should be observed for signs of bradycardia or heart block, particularly when one agent is added to pre-existing treatment with the other. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)] 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when carvedilol is coadministered with diltiazem. As with other agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties, if COREG CR is to be administered orally with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics Agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended . [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] 7.9 Proton Pump Inhibitors There is no clinically meaningful increase in AUC and C with concomitant administration of carvedilol extended-release capsules with pantoprazole. max 7.10 Anesthesia If treatment with COREG CR is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents which depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used . [see Overdosage (10)]"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -CYP P450 2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase and rifampin may decrease carvedilol levels. (7.1, 7.5) -Hypotensive agents (e.g., reserpine, MAO inhibitors, clonidine) may increase the risk of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. (7.2) -Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase. (7.3, 7.4) -Both digitalis glycosides and \\316\\262-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. (7.4) -Amiodarone may increase carvedilol levels resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. (7.6) -Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may affect ECG and/or blood pressure. (7.7) -Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced. (7.8) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Retrospective analysis of side effects in clinical trials showed that poor 2D6 metabolizers had a higher rate of dizziness during up-titration, presumably resulting from vasodilating effects of the higher concentrations of the \\316\\261-blocking R(+) enantiomer. 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking both agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties and a drug that can deplete catecholamines (e.g., reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. Concomitant administration of clonidine with agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties may potentiate blood-pressure- and heart-rate-lowering effects. When concomitant treatment with agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties and clonidine is to be terminated, the \\316\\262-blocking agent should be discontinued first. Clonidine therapy can then be discontinued several days later by gradually decreasing the dosage. 7.3 Cyclosporine Modest increases in mean trough cyclosporine concentrations were observed following initiation of carvedilol treatment in 21 renal transplant subjects suffering from chronic vascular rejection. In about 30% of subjects, the dose of cyclosporine had to be reduced in order to maintain cyclosporine concentrations within the therapeutic range, while in the remainder no adjustment was needed. On the average for the group, the dose of cyclosporine was reduced about 20% in these subjects. Due to wide interindividual variability in the dose adjustment required, it is recommended that cyclosporine concentrations be monitored closely after initiation of carvedilol therapy and that the dose of cyclosporine be adjusted as appropriate. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and \\316\\262-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Digoxin concentrations are increased by about 15% when digoxin and carvedilol are administered concomitantly. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing COREG CR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. Cimetidine increased area under the curve (AUC) by about 30% but caused no change in Cmax [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone, and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9, and P-glycoprotein increased concentrations of the S(-) enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with COREG CR may enhance the \\316\\262-blocking properties of carvedilol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Patients should be observed for signs of bradycardia or heart block, particularly when one agent is added to pre-existing treatment with the other. 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when carvedilol is coadministered with diltiazem. As with other agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties, if COREG CR is to be administered orally with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics Agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.9 Proton Pump Inhibitors There is no clinically meaningful increase in AUC and Cmax with concomitant administration of carvedilol extended-release capsules with pantoprazole. 7.10 Anesthesia If treatment with COREG CR is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents that depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [see Overdosage (10)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP P450 2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase and rifampin may decrease carvedilol levels. (7.1, 7.5) Hypotensive agents (e.g., reserpine, MAO inhibitors, clonidine) may increase the risk of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. (7.2) Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase. (7.3, 7.4) Both digitalis glycosides and \\316\\262-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. (7.4) Amiodarone may increase carvedilol levels resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. (7.6) Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may affect ECG and/or blood pressure. (7.7) Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced. (7.8) Revised: June 2009 CCR:11PI 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Retrospective analysis of side effects in clinical trials showed that poor 2D6 metabolizers had a higher rate of dizziness during up-titration, presumably resulting from vasodilating effects of the higher concentrations of the \\316\\261-blocking R(+) enantiomer. 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking both agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties and a drug that can deplete catecholamines (e.g., reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. Concomitant administration of clonidine with agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties may potentiate blood-pressure- and heart-rate-lowering effects. When concomitant treatment with agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties and clonidine is to be terminated, the \\316\\262-blocking agent should be discontinued first. Clonidine therapy can then be discontinued several days later by gradually decreasing the dosage. 7.3 Cyclosporine Modest increases in mean trough cyclosporine concentrations were observed following initiation of carvedilol treatment in 21 renal transplant patients suffering from chronic vascular rejection. In about 30% of patients, the dose of cyclosporine had to be reduced in order to maintain cyclosporine concentrations within the therapeutic range, while in the remainder no adjustment was needed. On the average for the group, the dose of cyclosporine was reduced about 20% in these patients. Due to wide interindividual variability in the dose adjustment required, it is recommended that cyclosporine concentrations be monitored closely after initiation of carvedilol therapy and that the dose of cyclosporine be adjusted as appropriate. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and \\316\\262-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Digoxin concentrations are increased by about 15% when digoxin and carvedilol are administered concomitantly. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing COREG CR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. Cimetidine increased area under the curve (AUC) by about 30% but caused no change in Cmax [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone, and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9 and P-glycoprotein, increased concentrations of the S(-) enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with COREG CR may enhance the \\316\\262-blocking properties of carvedilol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Patients should be observed for signs of bradycardia or heart block, particularly when one agent is added to pre-existing treatment with the other. 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when carvedilol is co-administered with diltiazem. As with other agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties, if COREG CR is to be administered orally with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics Agents with \\316\\262-blocking properties may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.9 Proton Pump Inhibitors There is no clinically meaningful increase in AUC and Cmax with concomitant administration of carvedilol extended-release capsules with pantoprazole.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) -Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose might not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings (5)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each OsmoPrep dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the medication may not be absorbed properly."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Abdominal bloating, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting were the most common adverse events reported with the use of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets. Dizziness and headache were reported less frequently. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical studies. Table 2 shows the most common adverse events associated with the use of 48 grams of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, 60 grams of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, and 60 grams of Visicol in the colon preparation trials (n=931). Table 2: Frequency of Adverse Events of Any Severity Occurring in Greater than 3% of Patients in the Monobasic Sodium Phosphate and Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Tablets Trials Monobasic Sodium Phosphate and Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Tablets 32 tabs (48 g) N=272 Monobasic Sodium Phosphate and Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Tablets 40 tabs (60 g) N=265 Visicol 40 tabs (60 g) N=268 Bloating 31% 39% 41% Nausea 26% 37% 30% Abdominal pan 23% 24% 25% Vomiting 4% 10% 9% Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous System: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Abdominal bloating, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting were the most common adverse events reported with the use of OsmoPrep Tablets. Dizziness and headache were reported less frequently. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of OsmoPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical studies. Table 2 shows the most common adverse events associated with the use of 48 grams of OsmoPrep, 60 grams of OsmoPrep, and 60 grams of Visicol in the colon preparation trials (n=931). Table 2: Frequency of Adverse Events of Any Severity Occurring in Greater Than 3% of Patients in the OsmoPrep Trials OsmoPrep 32 tabs (48 g) N=272 OsmoPrep 40 tabs (60 g) N=265 Visicol 40 tabs (60 g) N=268 Bloating 31% 39% 41% Nausea 26% 37% 30% Abdominal Pain 23% 24% 25% Vomiting 4% 10% 9% Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of OsmoPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to OsmoPrep, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous system: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea, and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. These are not all the possible side effects associated with EnLyte(R) It is important to always contact your healthcare practitioner if you experience any side effects on EnLyte(R). You may report side effects by calling (866) 280-5961."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Gas, bloating, heartburn, and nausea have been associated with ginger, but normally with high doses."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System: blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Genitourinary: difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Respiratory: shortness of breath or trouble breathing Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mission Pharmacal at 1-800-845-7827 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch. Drug interactions - As a result of hyoscyamine's effects on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medication. Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics: May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Antimuscarinics: Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications. Antacids/antidiarrheals: Concurrent use may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness. Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine. Antimyasthenics: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility, therefore caution is recommended. Ketoconazole and hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH. Concurrent administration with hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketaconazole. Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects. Opioid (narcotic) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation. Sulfonamides: These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria. Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the methylene blue."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System: blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Genitourinary: difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Respiratory: shortness of breath or trouble breathing Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Stellar Pharmacal at 1-800-845-7827 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch. Drug interactions because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Cardiovascular: rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System: blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Genitourinary: difficulty micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Respiratory: shortness of breath or trouble breathing Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. The following number does not provide medical advice, but in the U.S. you may report suspected side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or trouble breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea and vomiting"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993; email drugsafety@avkare.com ; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Burel Pharmaceuticals, Inc at 1-601-706-9819 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal -dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Marnel Pharmaceutical, Inc. at 337-232-1396, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Method Pharmaceuticals, LLC at (877) 250-3427."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficulty micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea/vomiting"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Codeine: Nervous System - CNS depression, particularly respiratory depression, and to a lesser extent circulatory depression; light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, euphoria, dysphoria, headache, transient hallucination, disorientation, visual disturbances and convulsions. Cardiovascular - Tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, orthostatic hypotension (common to narcotic analgesics). Gastrointestinal - Nausea, vomiting, constipation and biliary tract spasm. Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis may experience increased colonic motility; in patients with acute ulcerative colitis, toxic dilation has been reported. Genitourinary - Oliguria, urinary retention; antidiuretic effect has been reported (common to narcotic analgesics). Allergic - Infrequent pruritus, giant urticaria, angioneurotic edema and laryngeal edema. Other - Flushing of the face, sweating and pruritus (due to opiate-induced histamine release); weakness. Promethazine: Central Nervous System - Drowsiness is the most prominent CNS effect of this drug. Sedation, somnolence, blurred vision, dizziness; confusion, disorientation, and extrapyramidal symptoms such as oculogyric crisis, torticollis, and tongue protrusion; lassitude, tinnitus, incoordination, fatigue, euphoria, nervousness, diplopia, insomnia, tremors, convulsive seizures, excitation, catatonic-like states, hysteria. Hallucinations have also been reported. Cardiovascular - Increased or decreased blood pressure, tachycardia, bradycardia, faintness. Dermatologic - Dermatitis, photosensitivity, urticaria. Hematologic - Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, agranulocytosis. Gastrointestinal - Dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, jaundice. Respiratory - Asthma, nasal stuffiness, respiratory depression (potentially fatal) and apnea (potentially fatal). (See WARNINGS - Promethazine; Respiratory Depression .) Other - Angioneurotic edema. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (potentially fatal) has also been reported. (See WARNINGS - Promethazine; Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome .) Paradoxical Reactions - Hyperexcitability and abnormal movements have been reported in patients following a single administration of promethazine HCI. Consideration should be given to the discontinuation of promethazine HCl and to the use of other drugs if these reactions occur. Respiratory depression, nightmares, delirium, and agitated behavior have also been reported in some of these patients. Phenylephrine: Nervous System - Restlessness, anxiety, nervousness and dizziness. Cardiovascular - Hypertension (see WARNINGS ). Other - Precordial pain, respiratory distress, tremor and weakness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Codeine: Nervous System - CNS depression, particularly respiratory depression, and to a lesser extent circulatory depression; light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, euphoria, dysphoria, headache, transient hallucination, disorientation, visual disturbances, and convulsions. Cardiovascular - Tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitation, faintness, syncope, orthostatic hypotension (common to narcotic analgesics). Gastrointestinal - Nausea, vomiting, constipation, and biliary tract spasm. Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis may experience increased colonic motility; in patients with acute ulcerative colitis, toxic dilation has been reported. Genitourinary- Oliguria, urinary retention; antidiuretic effect has been reported (common to narcotic analgesics). Allergic - Infrequent pruritus, giant urticaria, angioneurotic edema, and laryngeal edema. Other- Flushing of the face, sweating and pruritus (due to opiate-induced histamine release); weakness. Promethazine: Central Nervous System - Drowsiness is the most prominent CNS effect of this drug. Sedation, somnolence, blurred vision, dizziness; confusion, disorientation, and extrapyramidal symptoms such as oculogyric crisis, torticollis, and tongue protrusion; lassitude, tinnitus, incoordination, fatigue, euphoria, nervousness, diplopia, insomnia, tremors, convulsive seizures, excitation, catatonic-like states, hysteria. Hallucinations have also been reported. Cardiovascular - Increased or decreased blood pressure, tachycardia, bradycardia, faintness. Dermatologic - Dermatitis, photosensitivity, urticaria. Hematologic - Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, agranulocytosis. Gastrointestinal - Dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, jaundice. Respiratory - Asthma, nasal stuffiness, respiratory depression (potentially fatal) and apnea (potentially fatal). (See WARNINGS - Promethazine; Respiratory Depression.) Other - Angioneurotic edema. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (potentially fatal) has also been reported. (See WARNINGS - Promethazine; Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome.) Paradoxical Reactions - Hyperexcitability and abnormal movements have been reported in patients following a single administration of promethazine HCl. Consideration should be given to the discontinuation of promethazine HCl and to the use of other drugs if these reactions occur. Respiratory depression, nightmares, delirium, and agitated behavior have also been reported in some of these patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly Observed The most commonly reported adverse events associated with the use of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP and not reported at an equivalent incidence by placebo-treated patients were nausea and/or abdominal pain, drowsiness, and dizziness. Associated with Treatment Discontinuation Of the 382 patients treated with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP in controlled clinical trials, three (0.8%) discontinued treatment with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP because of adverse events. One patient each discontinued treatment for the following reasons: gastrointestinal upset; lightheadedness and heavy eyelids; and drowsiness and generalized tingling. Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials The following table summarizes the incidence rates of the adverse events reported by at least 1% of the Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP treated patients in controlled clinical trials comparing Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP to placebo, and provides a comparison to the incidence rates reported by the placebo-treated patients. The prescriber should be aware that these figures cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in the clinical trials. Similarly, the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigations involving different treatments, uses, and investigators. Adverse Events Reported by at Least 1% of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP Treated Patients During Placebo Controlled Clinical Trials Incidence Rate of Adverse Events Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Body System/ Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP Placebo Adverse Event (N = 382) (N = 377) Central Nervous Drowsiness 2.4% 0.5% Dizziness/Lightheadedness 2.6% 0.5% Intoxicated Feeling 1.0% 0% Gastrointestinal Nausea/Abdominal Pain 3.7% 0.8% Other Adverse Events Reported During Controlled Clinical Trials The listing that follows represents the proportion of the 382 patients exposed to Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP while participating in the controlled clinical trials who reported, on at least one occasion, an adverse event of the type cited. All reported adverse events, except those already presented in the previous table, are included. It is important to emphasize that, although the adverse events reported did occur while the patient was receiving Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, the adverse events were not necessarily caused by Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP. Adverse events are classified by body system and frequency. "Frequent" is defined as an adverse event which occurred in at least 1/100 (1%) of the patients; all adverse events listed in the previous table are frequent. "Infrequent" is defined as an adverse event that occurred in less than 1/100 patients but at least 1/1000 patients. All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, and sluggishness. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth and hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: vomiting, difficulty swallowing, and heartburn. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain and muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, and tinnitus. Voluntary reports of adverse drug events, temporally associated with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, that have been received since market introduction and that were not reported in clinical trials by the patients treated with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, are listed below. Many or most of these events may have no causal relationship with the drug and are listed according to body system. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, depression, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sedation, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, constipation, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasm, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section of this insert. Aspirin: occult blood loss, hemolytic anemia, iron deficiency anemia, gastric distress, heartburn, nausea, peptic ulcer, prolonged bleeding time, acute airway obstruction, renal toxicity when taken in high doses for prolonged periods, impaired urate excretion, hepatitis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Pathologic fracture of lang bones Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired would healing thin fagile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerbri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Pathologic fracture of long bones Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Pathologic fracture of long bones Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after I.V. injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS). Other Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Postinjection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Gastrointestinal Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic Impaired wound healing Thin, fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Other Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Postinjection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ). Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"Adverse Reactions Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness. Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increasaed intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight Gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation of hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcol-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcot-like arthropathy",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculosketal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechise and ecohymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertenstion Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and acchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous ractions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic adema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ) Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased apetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkolosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with pailledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction. (See WARNINGS ). Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reaction are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Post-injection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with b utalbital, a spirin, c affeine, and c odeine p hosphate c apsules, USP, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of b utalbital, a cetaminophen, c affeine, and c odeine p hosphate c apsules. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine tablets, USP."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine Tablets, USP."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Frequently Observed: The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed: All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Finorinal(R) with Codeine, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine with Codeine Phosphate Capsules. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine Tablets. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-Ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Fiorinal(R) with Codeine, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of butalbital, acetaminophen, caffeine, and codeine phosphate capsules. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine tablets."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Fiorinal(R) with Codeine, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine phosphate. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine Tablets, USP."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Fiorinal(R) with Codeine, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine phosphate. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine Tablets, USP."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Fiorinal(R) with Codeine, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine phosphate. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for Fioricet(R) (Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine Tablets, USP)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Frequently Observed The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and intoxicated feeling. Infrequently Observed All adverse events tabulated below are classified as infrequent. Central Nervous: headache, shaky feeling, tingling, agitation, fainting, fatigue, heavy eyelids, high energy, hot spells, numbness, sluggishness, seizure. Mental confusion, excitement or depression can also occur due to intolerance, particularly in elderly or debilitated patients, or due to overdosage of butalbital. Autonomic Nervous: dry mouth, hyperhidrosis. Gastrointestinal: difficulty swallowing, heartburn, flatulence, constipation. Cardiovascular: tachycardia. Musculoskeletal: leg pain, muscle fatigue. Genitourinary: diuresis. Miscellaneous: pruritus, fever, earache, nasal congestion, tinnitus, euphoria, allergic reactions. The following adverse reactions have been voluntarily reported as temporally associated with Fiorinal(R) with Codeine, a related product containing aspirin, butalbital, caffeine, and codeine phosphate. Central Nervous: abuse, addiction, anxiety, disorientation, hallucination, hyperactivity, insomnia, libido decrease, nervousness, neuropathy, psychosis, sexual activity increase, slurred speech, twitching, unconsciousness, vertigo. Autonomic Nervous: epistaxis, flushing, miosis, salivation. Gastrointestinal: anorexia, appetite increased, diarrhea, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal spasms, hiccup, mouth burning, pyloric ulcer. Cardiovascular: chest pain, hypotensive reaction, palpitations, syncope. Skin: erythema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, hives, rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis. Urinary: kidney impairment, urinary difficulty. Miscellaneous: allergic reaction, anaphylactic shock, cholangiocarcinoma, drug interaction with erythromycin (stomach upset), edema. The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of the components of Fioricet with Codeine. Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section. Acetaminophen: allergic reactions, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. Caffeine: cardiac stimulation, irritability, tremor, dependence, nephrotoxicity, hyperglycemia. Codeine: nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, lightheadedness, constipation, pruritus. Several cases of dermatological reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme, have been reported for Fioricet Tablets."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, and abdominal cramps. Hematologic: leukopenia, hemolytic anemia in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficient individuals, and methemoglobinemia in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) methemoglobin reductase deficient individuals."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, and abdominal cramps. Hematologic: leukopenia, hemolytic anemia in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficient individuals, and methemoglobinemia in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) methemoglobin reductase deficient individuals. Cardiac: Cardiac arrhythmia and QT interval prolongation (see PRECAUTIONS, OVERDOSAGE)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, and abdominal cramps. Hematologic: leukopenia, hemolytic anemia in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficient individuals, and methemoglobinemia in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) methemoglobin reductase deficient individuals. Cardiac: Cardiac Arrhythmia and QT interval prolongation (see PRECAUTIONS, OVERDOSAGE)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain and vomiting) may occur with phosphate therapy. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed (primarily from sodium or potassium): headaches; dizziness; mental confusion; seizures; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness or weakness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness of hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; fast or irregular heartbeat; shortness of breath or troubled breathing; swelling of feet or lower legs; unusual weight gain; low urine output; unusual thirst."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, and vomiting) may occur with phosphate therapy. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed (primarily from sodium or potassium): headaches; dizziness; mental confusion; seizures; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness or weakness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain or weakness of hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; fast or irregular heartbeat; shortness of breath or troubled breathing; swelling of feet or lower legs; unusual weight gain; low urine output; unusual thirst."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, and vomiting) may occur with the use of potassium phosphate. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed with potassium administration: irregular heartbeat; dizziness; mental confusion; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; shortness of breath or troubled breathing."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In some cases, allergic hypersensitivity has been reported following administration of folic acid. Mild gastrointestinal disturbances may occur with products containing ferrous fumarate (iron), but usually subside with continuation of therapy."$$
"Adverse Reactions In the phase 3 Visicol trials, bloating, nausea, abdominal pain, and vomiting were the most common drug-related adverse events reported with the use of Visicol (see Table 2). Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of Visicol diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical trials. Small superficial mucosal ulcerations, typical of those previously reported from the use of liquid preparations of sodium phosphate, and instances of mucosal bleeding have been observed on colonoscopy. No patient in the clinical studies developed predefined postural changes in vital signs with concomitant symptoms of lightheadedness or syncope. Table 2: Frequency of Drug-related* Adverse Events (>= 2%) of Patients in the Phase 3 Visicol Trials (Studies A and B) Visicol (R) %=n/N NuLYTELY (R) %=n/N * Drug-related were adverse events possibly or probably drug-related N=427 N=432 Bloating 47% 61% Nausea 35% 54% Abdominal Pain 30% 36% Vomiting 7% 18% Electrolyte Changes In Visicol trials, changes in serum electrolytes (including phosphate, calcium, potassium, and sodium) have been observed in patients taking Visicol Tablets. In the Visicol phase 3 trials, 96% and <1% of patients who took Visicol (60 grams) and NuLYTELY (up to 4 liters), respectively, developed hyperphosphatemia (defined as phosphate level > 4.7 mg/dL) on the day of the colonoscopy. In these trials, patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY had baseline mean phosphate levels of 3.3 and 3.4 mg/dL and subsequently developed on the day of the colonoscopy mean phosphate levels of 7.1 and 3.3 mg/dL, respectively. Two to three days after colonoscopy, 34%, 66%, and 0% of patients who received Visicol had (reactive) hypophosphatemia (defined as phosphate level < 2.4 mg/dL), normal phosphate levels, and hyperphosphatemia, respectively. Two to three days after colonoscopy, 3%, 96%, and 1% of patients who received NuLYTELY had (reactive) hypophosphatemia, normal phosphate levels, and hyperphosphatemia, respectively. Two to three days after colonoscopy, patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY had mean phosphate levels of 2.6 and 3.3 mg/dL, respectively. In the Visicol phase 3 trials, 47% and 9% of patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY, respectively, developed hypocalcemia (defined as calcium level < 8.6 mg/dL) on the day of the colonoscopy. The mean changes in calcium levels (from baseline) for the Visicol and NuLYTELY patients were -0.6 and -0.1 mg/dL, respectively. Furthermore, in these trials, 28% and 3% of patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY, respectively, developed hypokalemia (defined as potassium level < 3.5 mEq/L) on the day of the colonoscopy. The mean changes in potassium levels (from baseline) for the Visicol and NuLYTELY patients were -0.5 and -0.1 mEq/L, respectively. None of the patients who developed hypocalcemia or hypokalemia in the trials required treatment. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of Visicol. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to Visicol, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous system: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or high-dosage 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Reversible corneal opacities have also been reported. Special Senses: Ocular: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Auditory: Skeletal muscle myopathy or neuromyopathy leading to progressive weakness and atrophy of proximal muscle groups, which may be associated with mild sensory changes, depression of tendon reflexes and abnormal nerve conduction, have been noted. Musculoskeletal System: Hepatitis increased liver enzymes, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Gastrointestinal system: Rare reports of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis and similar desquamation-type events. Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, urticaria, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction including angioedema, photosensitivity and hair loss and bleaching of hair pigment. Skin and appendages: Rarely, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, reversible agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Hematologic system: Convulsive seizures, mild and transient headache, polyneuritis. Neuropsychiatric changes including psychosis, delirium, anxiety, agitation, insomnia, confusion, hallucinations, personality changes and depression. Nervous system: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change (particularly, inversion or depression of the T-wave with widening of the QRS complex), and cardiomyopathy. Cardiovascular system: To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001, and the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or . www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection) Cardiovascular: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri), usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection) Cardiovascular: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri), usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection) Cardiovascular: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection): Cardiovascular: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection): Cardiovascular: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Royal Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-510-3401 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection): Cardiovascular: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Seton Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-510-3401 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection): Cardiovascular:Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Dermatologic:Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Endocrine:Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances:Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Neurological: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Seton Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-510-3401 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants. Cardiovascular: Facial erythema; increased sweating; impaired wound healing; may suppress reactions to skin tests; petechiae and ecchymoses; thin fragile skin; urticaria; edema. Dermatologic: Decreased carbohydrate tolerance; development of cushingoid state; hirsutism; increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetic patients; manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus; menstrual irregularities; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness; suppression of growth in children. Endocrine: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients; fluid retention; hypertension; hypokalemic alkalosis; potassium loss; sodium retention. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances: Abdominal distention; elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation); pancreatitis; peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage; ulcerative esophagitis. Gastrointestinal: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Metabolic: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads; loss of muscle mass; muscle weakness; osteoporosis; pathologic fracture of long bones; steroid myopathy; tendon rupture; vertebral compression fractures. Musculoskeletal: Convulsions; headache; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment; psychic disorders; vertigo. Neurological: Exophthalmos; glaucoma; increased intraocular pressure; posterior subcapsular cataracts. Ophthalmic: Increased appetite; malaise; nausea; weight gain. Other:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions to benzodiazepines, including CNS effects and respiratory depression, are dose dependent, with more severe effects occurring with high doses. In a sample of about 3500 patients treated for anxiety, the most frequent adverse reaction to lorazepam was sedation (15.9%), followed by dizziness (6.9%), weakness (4.2%), and unsteadiness (3.4%). The incidence of sedation and unsteadiness increased with age. Other adverse reactions to benzodiazepines, including lorazepam are fatigue, drowsiness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion, disorientation, depression, unmasking of depression, disinhibition, euphoria, suicidal ideation/attempt, ataxia, asthenia, extrapyramidal symptoms, convulsions/seizures tremor, vertigo, eye-function/visual disturbance (including diplopia and blurred vision), dysarthria/slurred speech, change in libido, impotence, decreased orgasm; headache, coma; respiratory depression, apnea, worsening of sleep apnea, worsening of obstructive pulmonary disease; gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea, change in appetite, constipation, jaundice, increase in bilirubin, increase in liver transaminases, increase in alkaline phosphatase; hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylactic/oid reactions; dermatological symptoms, allergic skin reactions, alopecia; S IADH, hyponatremia; thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia; hypothermia; and autonomic manifestations. Paradoxical reactions, including anxiety, excitation, agitation, hostility, aggression, rage, sleep disturbances/insomnia, sexual arousal, and hallucinations may occur. Small decreases in blood pressure and hypotension may occur but are usually not clinically significant, probably being related to the relief of anxiety produced by lorazepam."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular reactions: Irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or high-dose 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Neuromuscular reactions: Convulsive seizures. Auditory reactions: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Gastrointestinal reactions: Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Dermatologic reactions: Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, and hair loss. CNS reactions: Mild and transient headache; psychic stimulation. Cardiovascular reactions: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Postmarketing Experience -serotonin syndrome -adrenal insufficiency Androgen deficiency Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as symptoms of hypogonadism, such as impotence, erectile dysfunction, or amenorrhea. The causal role of opioids in the syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date. Patients presenting with symptoms of androgen deficiency should undergo laboratory evaluation. The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Postmarketing Experience serotonin syndrome adrenal insufficiency Androgen deficiency Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as symptoms of hypogonadism, such as impotence, erectile dysfunction, or amenorrhea. The causal role of opioids in the syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date. Patients presenting with symptoms of androgen deficiency should undergo laboratory evaluation. The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Pathologic fracture of long bones Tendon rupture Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel, particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Impaired wound healing Thin, fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in children Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Rare instances of blindness associated with intralesional therapy around the face and head Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Postinjection flare (following intra-articular use) Charcot-like arthropathy"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Special Senses: Ocular: Irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or high-dosage 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Reversible corneal opacities have also been reported. Auditory: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Musculoskeletal system: Skeletal muscle myopathy or neuromyopathy leading to progressive weakness and atrophy of proximal muscle groups, which may be associated with mild sensory changes, depression of tendon reflexes and abnormal nerve conduction, have been noted. Gastrointestinal system: Hepatitis, increased liver enzymes, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Skin and appendages: Rare reports of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis and similar desquamation-type events. Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, urticaria, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction including angioedema, photosensitivity and hair loss and bleaching of hair pigment. Hematologic system: Rarely, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, reversible agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Nervous system: Convulsive seizures, mild and transient headache, polyneuritis. Neuropsychiatric changes including psychosis, delirium, anxiety, agitation, insomnia, confusion, hallucinations, personality changes, and depression. Cardiovascular system: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change (particularly, inversion or depression of the T-wave with widening of the QRS complex), and cardiomyopathy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Special Senses: Ocular: Irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or high-dosage 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Reversible corneal opacities have also been reported. Auditory: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Musculoskeletal System: Skeletal muscle myopathy or neuromyopathy leading to progressive weakness and atrophy of proximal muscle groups, which may be associated with mild sensory changes, depression of tendon reflexes and abnormal nerve conduction, have been noted. Gastrointestinal system: Hepatitis increased liver enzymes, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Skin and appendages: Rare reports of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis and similar desquamation-type events. Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, urticaria, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction including angioedema, photosensitivity and hair loss and bleaching of hair pigment. Hematologic system: Rarely, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, reversible agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Nervous system: Convulsive seizures, mild and transient headache, polyneuritis. Neuropsychiatric changes including psychosis, delirium, anxiety, agitation, insomnia, confusion, hallucinations, personality changes and depression. Cardiovascular system: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change (particularly, inversion or depression of the T-wave with widening of the QRS complex), and cardiomyopathy. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001, and the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Special Senses: Ocular: Irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or high-dose 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Auditory: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Musculoskeletal system: Skeletal muscle myopathy or neuromyopathy leading to progressive weakness and atrophy of proximal muscle groups, which may be associated with mild sensory changes, depression of tendon reflexes and abnormal nerve conduction, have been noted. Gastrointestinal system: Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Skin and appendages: Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, photosensitivity and hair loss and bleaching of hair pigment. Hematologic system: Rarely, aplastic anemia, reversible agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Central Nervous system: Convulsive seizures. Mild and transient headache. Neuropsychiatric changes including psychosis, delirium, personality changes and depression. Cardiovascular system: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change (particularly, inversion or depression of the T-wave with widening of the QRS complex), and cardiomyopathy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Special Senses: Ocular: Maculopathy and macular degeneration have been reported and may be irreversible (see WARNINGS); irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or high-dosage 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Reversible corneal opacities have also been reported. Auditory: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Musculoskeletal system: Skeletal muscle myopathy or neuromyopathy leading to progressive weakness and atrophy of proximal muscle groups, which may be associated with mild sensory changes, depression of tendon reflexes and abnormal nerve conduction, have been noted. Gastrointestinal system: Hepatitis, increased liver enzymes, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Skin and appendages: Rare reports of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis and similar desquamation-type events. Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, urticaria, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction including angioedema; drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome); photosensitivity and hair loss and bleaching of hair pigment. Hematologic system: Rarely, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, reversible agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Nervous system: Convulsive seizures, mild and transient headache, polyneuritis. Acute extrapyramidal disorders (such as dystonia, dyskinesia, tongue protrusion, torticollis) (see WARNINGS and OVERDOSE). Neuropsychiatric changes including psychosis, delirium, anxiety, agitation, insomnia, confusion, hallucinations, personality changes, and depression. Cardiac system: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change (particularly, inversion or depression of the T-wave with widening of the QRS complex), and cardiomyopathy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Special Senses: Ocular: Maculopathy and macular degeneration have been reported and may be irreversible (see WARNINGS); irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or high-dosage 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Reversible corneal opacities have also been reported. Auditory: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Musculoskeletal System: Skeletal muscle myopathy or neuromyopathy leading to progressive weakness and atrophy of proximal muscle groups, which may be associated with mild sensory changes, depression of tendon reflexes and abnormal nerve conduction, have been noted. Gastrointestinal system: Hepatitis, increased liver enzymes, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Skin and appendages: Rare reports of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis and similar desquamation-type events. Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, urticaria, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction including angioedema; drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome); photosensitivity and hair loss and bleaching of hair pigment. Hematologic system: Rarely, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, reversible agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Nervous system: Convulsive seizures, mild and transient headache, polyneuritis. Acute extrapyramidal disorders (such as dystonia, dyskinesia, tongue protrusion, torticollis) (see WARNINGS and OVERDOSE). Neuropsychiatric changes including psychosis, delirium, anxiety, agitation, insomnia, confusion, hallucinations, personality changes, and depression. Cardiac system: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change (particularly, inversion or depression of the T-wave with widening of the QRS complex), and cardiomyopathy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Special Senses: Ocular: Maculopathy and macular degeneration have been reported and may be irreversible (see WARNINGS), irreversible retinal damage in patients receiving long-term or highdosage 4-aminoquinoline therapy; visual disturbances (blurring of vision and difficulty of focusing or accommodation); nyctalopia; scotomatous vision with field defects of paracentral, pericentral ring types, and typically temporal scotomas, e.g., difficulty in reading with words tending to disappear, seeing half an object, misty vision, and fog before the eyes. Reversible corneal opacities have also been reported. Auditory: Nerve type deafness; tinnitus, reduced hearing in patients with preexisting auditory damage. Musculoskeletal system: Skeletal muscle myopathy or neuromyopathy leading to progressive weakness and atrophy of proximal muscle groups, which may be associated with mild sensory changes, depression of tendon reflexes and abnormal nerve conduction, have been noted. Gastrointestinal system: Hepatitis, increased liver enzymes, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps. Skin and appendages: Rare reports of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis and similar desquamation-type events. Pleomorphic skin eruptions, skin and mucosal pigmentary changes; lichen planus-like eruptions, pruritus, urticaria, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction including angioedema; drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome); photosensitivity and hair loss and bleaching of hair pigment. Hematologic system: Rarely, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia, reversible agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Nervous system: Convulsive seizures, mild and transient headache, polyneuritis. Acute extrapyramidal disorders (such as dystonia, dyskinesia, tongue protusion, torticollis) (see WARNINGS and OVER DOSE). Neuropsychiatric changes including psychosis, delirium, anxiety, agitation, insomnia, confusion, hallucinations, personality changes, and depression. Cardiovascular system: Rarely, hypotension, electrocardiographic change (particularly, inversion or depression of the T-wave with widening of the QRS complex), and cardiomyopathy."$$
"Adverse Reactions The most frequently observed adverse reactions include drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia and agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently observed adverse reactions include drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis. At higher doses, codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently observed adverse reactions include drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis. At higher doses, codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently observed adverse reactions include drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea, and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis. At higher doses, codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently observed adverse reactions include lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain and pruritus. At higher doses, codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritis, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses, codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, light-headedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses, codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mirror Pharmaceuticals at 1-862-210-8529 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The following adverse reactions, which have occurred with the administration of the individual products alone may also occur with the use of Carisoprodol, Aspirin and Codeine Phosphate Tablets. The following events have been reported during post-approval individual use of carisoprodol and aspirin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Carisoprodol: The following events have been reported during post-\\302\\254approval use of carisoprodol. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular: Tachycardia, postural hypotension, and facial flushing (see OVERDOSAGE ). Central Nervous System: Drowsiness, dizziness, vertigo, ataxia, tremor, agitation, irritability, headache, depressive reactions, syncope, insomnia, and seizures (see OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, and epigastric discomfort. Hematologic: Leukopenia, pancytopenia. Aspirin: TThe most common adverse reactions associated with the use of aspirin have been gastrointestinal, including abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, gastritis, and occult bleeding (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions and PRECAUTIONS , Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions). Other adverse reactions associated with the use of aspirin include elevated liver enzymes, rash, pruritus, purpura, intracranial hemorrhage, interstitial nephritis, acute renal failure, and tinnitus. Tinnitus may be a symptom of high serum salicylate levels (see OVERDOSAGE ). Codeine Phosphate:Nausea, vomiting, constipation, miosis, sedation, dizziness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Rising Pharmaceuticals at 1-201-961-9000 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The following adverse reactions, which have occurred with the administration of the individual products alone may also occur with the use of Carisoprodol, Aspirin and Codeine Phosphate Tablets. The following events have been reported during post-approval individual use of carisoprodol and aspirin. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Carisoprodol: The following events have been reported during post-approval use of carisoprodol. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular: Tachycardia, postural hypotension, and facial flushing (see OVERDOSAGE ). Central Nervous System: Drowsiness, dizziness, vertigo, ataxia, tremor, agitation, irritability, headache, depressive reactions, syncope, insomnia, and seizures (see OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, and epigastric discomfort. Hematologic: Leukopenia, pancytopenia. Aspirin: The most common adverse reactions associated with the use of aspirin have been gastrointestinal, including abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, gastritis, and occult bleeding (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions and PRECAUTIONS , Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions). Other adverse reactions associated with the use of aspirin include elevated liver enzymes, rash, pruritus, purpura, intracranial hemorrhage, interstitial nephritis, acute renal failure, and tinnitus. Tinnitus may be a symptom of high serum salicylate levels (see OVERDOSAGE ). Codeine Phosphate: Nausea, vomiting, constipation, miosis, sedation, dizziness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The following adverse reactions which have occurred with the administration of the individual products alone may also occur with the use of Carisoprodol, Aspirin and Codeine Phosphate Tablets. The following events have been reported during post-approval individual use of carisoprodol, aspirin, and codeine. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Carisoprodol Cardiovascular: Tachycardia, postural hypotension, and facial flushing (see OVERDOSAGE ). Central Nervous System: Drowsiness, dizziness, vertigo, ataxia, tremor, agitation, irritability, headache, depressive reactions, syncope, insomnia, and seizures (see OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, and epigastric discomfort. Hematologic: Leukopenia, pancytopenia. Aspirin The most common adverse reactions associated with the use of aspirin have been gastrointestinal, including both abdominal pain, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, gastritis, and occult bleeding (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions and PRECAUTIONS, Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ).Other adverse reactions associated with the use of aspirin include elevated liver enzymes, rash, pruritus, purpura, intracranial hemorrhage, interstitial nephritis, acute renal failure, and tinnitus. Tinnitus may be a sign of high serum salicylate levels (see OVERDOSAGE ). Codeine Phosphate Nausea, vomiting, constipation, miosis, sedation, dizziness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact Basiem, LLC, Madisonville, LA 70477 at 1-844-551-9911."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact Solubiomix, LLC, Madisonville, LA 70477 at 1-844-551-9911."$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs and of ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine."$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytoxic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.",$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytoxic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents."$$
"DRUG INTERACTION PRECAUTION Caution should be used when taking this product with sedatives, tranquilizers and drugs used for depression, especially monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). These combinations may cause greater sedation (drowsiness) than is caused by the products used alone. (See WARNINGS )"$$
"Drug Interactions: Although the exact mechanism of this drug interaction is unknown, methylene blue inhibits the action of monoamine oxidase A\\342\\200\\224 an enzyme responsible for breaking down serotonin in the brain. It is believed that when methylene blue is given to patients taking serotonergic psychiatric medications, high levels of serotonin can build up in the brain, causing toxicity. This is referred to as Serotonin Syndrome. Signs and symptoms of Serotonin Syndrome include mental changes (confusion, hyperactivity, memory problems), muscle twitching, excessive sweating, shivering or shaking, diarrhea, trouble with coordination, and/or fever."$$
"Drug Interactions Antacids and kaolin: Antacids and kaolin can reduce absorption of chloroquine; an interval of at least 4 hours between intake of these agents and chloroquine should be observed. Cimetidine: Cimetidine can inhibit the metabolism of chloroquine, increasing its plasma level. Concomitant use of cimetidine should be avoided. Ampicillin: In a study of healthy volunteers, chloroquine significantly reduced the bioavailability of ampicillin. An interval of at least two hours between intake of this agent and chloroquine should be observed. Cyclosporine: After introduction of chloroquine (oral form), a sudden increase in serum cyclosporine level has been reported. Therefore, close monitoring of serum cyclosporine level is recommended and, if necessary, chloroquine should be discontinued. Mefloquine: Co-administration of chloroquine and mefloquine may increase the risk of convulsions. The blood concentrations of chloroquine and desethylchloroquine (the major metabolite of chloroquine, which also has antimalarial properties) were negatively associated with log antibody titers. Chloroquine taken in the dose recommended for malaria prophylaxis can reduce the antibody response to primary immunization with intradermal human diploid-cell rabies vaccine."$$
"Drug Interactions Antacids and kaolin Antacids and kaolin can reduce the absorption of chloroquine; an interval of at least 4 hours between intake of these agents and chloroquine should be observed. Cimetidine Cimetidine can inhibit the metabolism of chloroquine, increasing its plasma level. Concomitant use of cimetidine should be avoided. Ampicillin In a study of healthy volunteers, chloroquine significantly reduced the bioavailability of ampicillin. An interval of at least two hours between intake of this agent and chloroquine should be observed. Cyclosporin After introduction of chloroquine (oral form), a sudden increase in serum cyclosporin level has been reported. Therefore, close monitoring of serum cyclosporin level is recommended and, if necessary, chloroquine should be discontinued."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS As a result of hyoscyamine's effects on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medication. Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Antimuscarinics Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications. Antacids/antidiarrheals Concurrent use may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness. Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine. Antimyasthenics Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility, therefore, caution is recommended. Ketoconazole and hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH. Concurrent administration with hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketoconazole. Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects. Opioid (narcotic) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation. Sulfonamides These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria. Patients should be advised that the urine and/or stools may become blue to blue-green as a result of the excretion of methylene blue. Drug Abuse And Dependence A dependence on the use of URIMAR-T(TM) has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients, abuse of URIMAR T(TM) is not expected."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS As a result of hyoscyamine's effects on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medication. Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics: May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Antimuscarinics: Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications. Antacids/antidiarrheals: Concurrent use may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness. Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine. Antimyasthenics: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility, therefore, caution is recommended. Ketoconazole and hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH. Concurrent administration with hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketoconazole. Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects. Opioid (narcotic) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation. Sulfonamides: These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria. Patients should be advised that the urine and/or stools may become blue to blue-green as a result of the excretion of methylene blue. Drug Abuse And Dependence A dependence on the use of UroAv-81 Tablets has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients, abuse of UroAv-81 Tablets is not expected."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS As a result of hyoscyamine's effects on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medication. Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics: May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Antimuscarinics: Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications. Antacids/antidiarrheals: Concurrent use may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness. Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine. Antimyasthenics: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility, therefore, caution is recommended. Ketoconazole and hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH. Concurrent administration with hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketoconazole. Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects. Opioid (narcotic) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation. Sulfonamides: These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria. Patients should be advised that the urine and/or stools may become blue to blue-green as a result of the excretion of methylene blue. Drug Abuse And Dependence A dependence on the use of Uro-L Tablets has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients, abuse of Uro-L Tablets is not expected."$$
"Drug interactions because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue."$$
"Drug Interactions because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde) doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects, opoid (narcotic) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of methylene blue."$$
"Drug Interactions Carisoprodol: The sedative effect of carisoprodol and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Therefore, caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously. Concomitant use of carisoprodol and meprobamate, a metabolite of carisoprodol, is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Sedation ). Carisoprodol is metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Co-administration of CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole or fluvoxamine, with carisoprodol could result in increased exposure of carisoprodol and decreased exposure of meprobamate. Co-administration of CYP2C19 inducers, such as rifampin or St. John's Wort, with carisoprodol could result in decreased exposure of carisoprodol and increased exposure of meprobamate. Low dose aspirin also showed an induction effect of CYP2C19. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown. Aspirin: Clinically important interactions may occur when certain drugs or alcohol are administered concomitantly with aspirin. Alcohol: Concomitant use of aspirin with >= 3 alcoholic drinks may increase the risk of GI bleeding (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ). Anticoagulants: Concomitant use of aspirin and anticoagulants (e.g., heparin, warfarin, clopidogrel) increase the risk of GI bleeding (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ). Additionally, aspirin can displace warfarin from protein binding sites, leading to prolongation of the international normalized ratio (INR). Antihypertensives: The concomitant administration of aspirin with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), beta\\302\\254-blockers, and diuretics may diminish the hypotensive effects of these anti-\\302\\254hypertensive products due to aspirin's inhibition of renal prostaglandins, which may lead to decreased renal blood flow and increased sodium and fluid retention. Concomitant use of aspirin and acetazolamide can lead to high serum concentrations of acetazolamide due to competition at the renal tubule for secretion. Corticosteroids: Concomitant administration of aspirin and corticosteroids may decrease salicylate plasma levels. Methotrexate: Aspirin may enhance the toxicity of methotrexate due to displacement of methotrexate from its plasma protein binding sites and/or reduction of the renal clearance of methotrexate. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): The concurrent use of aspirin with selective and nonselective NSAIDs increases the risk of serious GI adverse reactions (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ). Oral Hypoglycemics Agents: Aspirin may increase the serum glucose-lowering action of insulin and sulfonylureas leading to hypoglycemia. Products that effect urinary pH: Ammonium chloride and other drugs that acidify the urine can elevate plasma salicylate concentrations. In contrast, antacids, by alkalinizing the urine, may decrease plasma salicylate concentrations. Uricosuric Agents: Salicylates antagonize the uricosuric action of probenecid and sulfinpyrazone. Codeine Phosphate:The sedative effects of codeine phosphate and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, other opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Therefore, caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously (see WARNINGS, Respiratory Depression and Sedation )."$$
"Drug Interactions Carisoprodol: The sedative effect of carisoprodol and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Therefore, caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously. Concomitant use of carisoprodol and meprobamate, a metabolite of carisoprodol, is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Sedation ). Carisoprodol is metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Co-administration of CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole or fluvoxamine, with carisoprodol could result in increased exposure of carisoprodol and decreased exposure of meprobamate. Co-administration of CYP2C19 inducers, such as rifampin or St. John's Wort, with carisoprodol could result in decreased exposure of carisoprodol and increased exposure of meprobamate. Low dose aspirin also showed an induction effect of CYP2C19. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown. Aspirin: Clinically important interactions may occur when certain drugs or alcohol are administered concomitantly with aspirin. Alcohol: Concomitant use of aspirin with >= 3 alcoholic drinks may increase the risk of GI bleeding (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ). Anticoagulants: Concomitant use of aspirin and anticoagulants (e.g., heparin, warfarin, clopidogrel) increase the risk of GI bleeding (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ). Additionally, aspirin can displace warfarin from protein binding sites, leading to prolongation of the international normalized ratio (INR). Antihypertensives: The concomitant administration of aspirin with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), beta-blockers, and diuretics may diminish the hypotensive effects of these anti-hypertensive products due to aspirin's inhibition of renal prostaglandins, which may lead to decreased renal blood flow and increased sodium and fluid retention. Concomitant use of aspirin and acetazolamide can lead to high serum concentrations of acetazolamide due to competition at the renal tubule for secretion. Corticosteroids: Concomitant administration of aspirin and corticosteroids may decrease salicylate plasma levels. Methotrexate: Aspirin may enhance the toxicity of methotrexate due to displacement of methotrexate from its plasma protein binding sites and/or reduction of the renal clearance of methotrexate. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): The concurrent use of aspirin with selective and nonselective NSAIDs increases the risk of serious GI adverse reactions (see WARNINGS, Serious Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ). Oral Hypoglycemics Agents: Aspirin may increase the serum glucose lowering action of insulin and sulfonylureas leading to hypoglycemia. Products that effect urinary pH: Ammonium chloride and other drugs that acidify the urine can elevate plasma salicylate concentrations. In contrast, antacids, by alkalinizing the urine, may decrease plasma salicylate concentrations. Uricosuric Agents: Salicylates antagonize the uricosuric action of probenecid and sulfinpyrazone. Codeine Phosphate: The sedative effects of codeine phosphate and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, other opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Therefore, caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously (see WARNINGS, Respiratory Depression and Sedation )."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised if primaquine is used concomitantly with other drugs that prolong the QT interval (see PRECAUTIONS, ADVERSE REACTIONS, and OVERDOSAGE)."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised if Primaquine is used concomitantly with other drugs that prolong the QT interval (see PRECAUTIONS, ADVERSE REACTIONS, and OVERDOSAGE)."$$
"Drug Interactions: Codeine: In patients receiving MAO inhibitors, an initial small test dose is advisable to allow observation of any excessive narcotic effects or MAOI interaction. Promethazine CNS Depressants \\342\\200\\224Promethazine may increase, prolong, or intensify the sedative action of other central-nervous system depressants, such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricylic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine HCl. When given concomitantly with promethazine, the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one-half, and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one-quarter to one-half. Dosage must be individualized. Excessive amounts of promethazine HCl relative to a narcotic may lead to restlessness and motor hyperactivity in the patient with pain; these symptoms usually disappear with adequate control of the pain. Epinephrine \\342\\200\\224Because of the potential for promethazine to reverse epinephrine's vasopressor effect, epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with promethazine overdose. Anticholinergics \\342\\200\\224Concomitant use of other agents with anticholinergic properties should be undertaken with caution. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) \\342\\200\\224Drug interactions, including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects, have been reported when some MAOI and phenothiazines are used concomitantly."$$
"Drug Interactions: Codeine: In patients receiving MAO inhibitors, an initial small test dose is advisable to allow observation of any excessive narcotic effects or MAOI interaction. Promethazine: CNS Depressants - Promethazine may increase, prolong, or intensify the sedative action of other central-nervous-system depressants, such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine HCl. When given concomitantly with promethazine, the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one-half, and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one-quarter to one-half. Dosage must be individualized. Excessive amounts of promethazine HCl relative to a narcotic may lead to restlessness and motor hyperactivity in the patient with pain; these symptoms usually disappear with adequate control of the pain. Epinephrine - Because of the potential for promethazine to reverse epinephrine's vasopressor effect, epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with promethazine overdose. Anticholinergics - Concomitant use of other agents with anticholinergic properties should be undertaken with caution. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) - Drug interactions, including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects, have been reported when some MAOI and phenothiazines are used concomitantly. Phenylephrine: Drug Effect Phenylephrine with prior administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI). Cardiac pressor response potentiated. May cause acute hypertensive crisis. Phenylephrine with tricyclic anti-depressants. Pressor response increased. Phenylephrine with ergot alkaloids. Excessive rise in blood pressure. Phenylephrine with bronchodilator sympathomimetic agents and with epinephrine or other sympathomimetics. Tachycardia or other arrhythmias may occur. Phenylephrine with prior administration of propranolol or other \\316\\262-adrenergic blockers. Cardiostimulating effects blocked. Phenylephrine with atropine sulfate. Reflex bradycardia blocked; pressor response enhanced. Phenylephrine with prior administration of phentolamine or other \\316\\261-adrenergic blockers. Pressor response decreased. Phenylephrine with diet preparations, such as amphetamines or phenylpropanolamine. Synergistic adrenergic response.",$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions - because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Millipred Oral Solution (10 mg Prednisolone per 5 mL) be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of PEDIAPRED be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Oral Solution (15 mg Prednisolone per 5 mL) be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of PREDNISOLONE SODIUM PHOSPHATE ORAL SOLUTION (15 mg Prednisolone per 5 mL) be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of prednisolone sodium phosphate oral solution be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustment of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions: Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of prednisolone sodium phosphate oral solution be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustment of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Oral Solution be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug interactions: Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Oral Solution be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of prednisolone sodium phosphate oral solution be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of Prednisolone Sodium Phosphate Oral Solution be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"Drug Interactions Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance metabolism of prednisolone and require that the dosage of VERIPRED(TM) 20 (20 mg prednisolone per 5 mL) be increased. Increased activity of both cyclosporin and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids thereby increasing their effect. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Concomitant use of aspirin (or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., diuretics, amphotericin-B), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Due to inhibition of antibody response, patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. If possible, routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued. Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate** include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. ** Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-GGR-B6 does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which interact with calcium: Calcium may interfere with the absorption of iron. Consult your healthcare practitioner for advice. Calcium may interfere with blood pressure medications in certain situations. Consult your healthcare practitioner for advice."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications administered in close proximity to monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets may not be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract due to the rapid intestinal peristalsis and watery diarrhea induced by the purgative agent."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications administered in close proximity to Visicol Tablets may not be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract due to the rapid intestinal peristalsis and watery diarrhea induced by the purgative agent."$$
"Drug Interactions Patients receiving other narcotic analgesics, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with this drug may exhibit an additive CNS depression. When such combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. The concurrent use of anticholinergics with codeine may produce paralytic ileus."$$
"Drug Interactions: The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine with codeine phosphate may enhance the effects of: - Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions: Acetaminophen Acetaminophen may produce false-positive test results for urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. Codeine Codeine may increase serum amylase levels."$$
"Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules may enhance the effects of: \\342\\210\\222 Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules may enhance the effects of: - Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, acetaminophen, caffeine, and codeine phosphate capsules may enhance the effects of: - Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, acetaminophen, caffeine, and codeine phosphate capsules may enhance the effects of: Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate may enhance the effects of: - Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Fioricet with Codeine may enhance the effects of: - Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of aspirin, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP may enhance the effects of: Oral anticoagulants, causing bleeding by inhibiting prothrombin formation in the liver and displacing anticoagulants from plasma protein binding sites. Oral antidiabetic agents and insulin, causing hypoglycemia by contributing an additive effect, if dosage of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP exceeds maximum recommended daily dosage. 6-mercaptopurine and methotrexate, causing bone marrow toxicity and blood dyscrasias by displacing these drugs from secondary binding sites, and, in the case of methotrexate, also reducing its excretion. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, increasing the risk of peptic ulceration and bleeding by contributing additive effects. Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP may diminish the effects of: Uricosuric agents such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, reducing their effectiveness in the treatment of gout. Aspirin competes with these agents for protein binding sites."$$
"Drug Interactions: The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Calcium-containing preparations and/or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia. Potassium-containing medication or potassium-sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals."$$
"Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin, with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Calciumcontaining preparations and/or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia. Potassium-containing medications or potassium-sparingdiuretics may cause hyperkalemia. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals."$$
"Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin, with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Potassium-containing medications or potassium-sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia when used wi t h potassium phosphate. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals. Plasma levels of salicylates may be increased since salicylate excretion is decreased in acidified urine. Administration of monobasic phosphates to patients stabilized on salicylates may lead to toxic salicylate levels."$$
"Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium, calcium, or aluminum in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Potassium-containing medications or potassium-sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia when used concurrently with potassium salts. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals. Concurrent use of salicylates may lead to increased serum salicylate levels since excretion of salicylates is reduced in acidified urine. Serum salicylate levels should be closely monitored to avoid toxicity."$$
"Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression.",$$
"Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression"$$
"Drug Interactions: This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression.",$$
"Drug Interactions: This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression."$$
"Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. CYP3A4 Inhibitor The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of acetaminophen and codeine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved [see WARNINGS]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the acetaminophen and codeine plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablet dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Inducer The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of acetaminophen and codeine [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets [see WARNINGS]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the acetaminophen and codeine plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablet dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablet dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Central Nervous System Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of CNS depressants such as alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Consider dose reduction of one or both drugs. Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension [see WARNINGS]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected."$$
"Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. CYP3A4 Inhibitor The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of acetaminophen and codeine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved [see WARNINGS]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the acetaminophen and codeine plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablet dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Inducer The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of acetaminophen and codeine [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets [see WARNINGS]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the acetaminophen and codeine plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablet dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablet dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Central Nervous System Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of CNS depressants such as alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Consider dose reduction of one or both drugs. Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension [see WARNINGS]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: This drug should not be used with the following medications because very serious interactions may occur: live influenza virus vaccine, pramlintide. Because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine sulfate because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine sulfate, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine sulfate; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine sulfate may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). This is not a complete list of all drug interactions. Tell your doctor or pharmacist of all prescription medications prior to use."$$
"Safe - no side effects - no drug interactions - works naturally with your body"$$
"The most frequently reported adverse reactions are drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, sedation, shortness of breath, nausea and vomiting. These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non-ambulatory patients, and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions, euphoria, dysphoria, constipation, abdominal pain, pruritus, rash, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis. At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression. DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Subs tance Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are classified as a Schedule III controlled substance. Abus e and Dependence Codeine can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and, therefore, has the potential for being abused. Psychological dependence, physical dependence, and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration and it should be prescribed and administered with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other oral narcotic medications."$$
"To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-999-8402 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: Do not exceed recommended dosage. This drug may make you dizzy or drowsy or cause blurred vision; use caution while driving, using machinery, or doing any activity that requires alertness or clear vision. Limit alcohol consumption. Cross sensitivity and/or related problems - patients intolerant of belladonna alkaloids or salicylates may be intolerant of this medication also. Delay in gastric emptying could complicate the management of gastric ulcers. There have been no studies to establish the safety of prolonged use of this product in humans. No known long-term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential. Pregnancy: Teratogenic Effects. Pregnancy Category C: Hyoscyamine sulfate and methenamine cross the placenta. Studies have not been done in animals or humans. It is not known whether UR N-C tablets cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. UR N-C tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Nursing Mothers: Problems in humans have not been documented; however, methenamine and traces of hyoscyamine sulfate are excreted in breast milk. Accordingly, UR N-C tablets should be given to a lactating woman only if clearly needed. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor. Pediatric Use: Infants and young children are especially susceptible to the toxic effect of the belladonna alkaloids (hyoscyamine sulfate). This product contains salicylate, which is related to aspirin. Children and teenagers should not take aspirin, aspirin-containing or aspirin-related medications if they have chickenpox, influenza, or any undiagnosed illness without first consulting a doctor. A rare but serious illness known as Reye's syndrome may occur. This medication is not recommended for children younger than 6 years. Geriatric Use: Kidney function becomes impaired with age. This medication is removed by the kidneys. Therefore, use with caution in elderly patients as they may respond to usual doses of hyoscyamine sulfate with excitement, agitation, drowsiness or confusion."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Dyzbac tablets should only be used under the direction and supervision of a licensed medical practitioner. Use with caution in patients that may have a medical condition, are pregnant, lactating, trying to conceive, under the age of 18, or taking medications. Dyzbac Tablets should be avoided in children. Use with caution in patients who have a blood disorder, or are taking blood thinning medications such as aspirin, warfarin, or clopidrogrel. Pregnancy And Lactation Dyzbac is not intended for use in pregnant or lactating patients.."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Mebolex tablets should only be used under the direction and supervision of a licensed medical practitioner. Use with caution in patients that may have a medical condition, are pregnant, lactating, trying to conceive, under the age of 18, or taking medications. Mebolex Tablets should be avoided in children. Use with caution in patients who have a blood disorder, or are taking blood thinning medications such as aspirin, warfarin, or clopidrogrel. Pregnancy And Lactation Mebolex is not intended for use in pregnant or lactating patients.."$$
