""$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored. Abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PRISMASOL and PHOXILLUM solutions (5.1) Antidiabetic therapy may need adjustment during treatment with dextrose containing formulations (5.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1-800-651-2623 or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 5.1 Electrolyte and Volume Abnormalities Monitor hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance throughout the procedure. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration using PRISMASOL or PHOXILLUM replacement solutions, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by changing the formulations of replacement solution or by supplementation [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.2 Hyperglycemia with Dextrose Containing Solutions The use of PRISMASOL replacement solutions containing dextrose may increase the risk for hyperglycemia in patients with impaired glucose tolerance. Patients may require initiation of or modification of antidiabetic therapy during treatment with PRISMASOL solutions containing dextrose. Monitor blood glucose."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKabiven(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. Hypersensitivity reactions: Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur. (5.2) Infection, fat overload, hyperglycemia and refeeding complications : Monitor for signs and symptoms; monitor laboratory parameters. (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7) 5.1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported. Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs. Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion. The safe and effective use of PERIKABIVEN(R) injection in pediatric patients, including preterm infants, has not been established. PERIKABIVEN(R) is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years including preterm infants. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop. Signs or symptoms may include: tachypnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, bronchospasm, tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis, vomiting, nausea, headache, sweating, dizziness, altered mentation, flushing, rash, urticaria, erythema, pyrexia and chills. 5.3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state. Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition, poor maintenance of catheters, or immunosuppressive effects of illness, drugs, and parenteral formulations. Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance, as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula. Monitor for signs and symptoms (including fever and chills) of early infections, including laboratory test results (including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device. 5.4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations. A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipid contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient's condition accompanied by fever, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorders, hyperlipidemia, liver fatty infiltration (hepatomegaly), deteriorating liver function, and central nervous system manifestations (e.g., coma). The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear. The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped. Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dosage was exceeded, cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions. 5.5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome, characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic. Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop. Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes, while avoiding overfeeding, to prevent these complications. 5.6 Diabetes/Hyperglycemia PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKABIVEN(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. 5.7 Monitoring/Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration. Monitor fluid status closely in patients with heart failure or pulmonary edema. Monitor serum triglycerides, fluid and electrolyte status, serum osmolarity, blood glucose, liver and kidney function, and blood count, including platelet and coagulation parameters, throughout treatment. In situations of severely elevated electrolyte levels stop PERIKABIVEN(R) until levels have been corrected. Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for signs and symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) is recommended. Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels. Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status. Increasing essential fatty acid intake (enterally or parenterally) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD. In PERIKABIVEN(R), the mean composition of linoleic acid (an omega-6 essential fatty acid) is 19 mg/mL (range 17 to 20 mg/mL) and alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 essential fatty acid) is 2.3 mg/mL (range 1.8 to 3.8 mg/mL). There are insufficient long-term data to determine whether PERIKABIVEN(R) can supply essential fatty acids in adequate amounts in patients who may have increased requirements. 5.8 Thrombophlebitis PERIKABIVEN(R) is indicated for peripheral administration, or may be infused into a central vein. Peripheral catheters should not be used for solutions with osmolarity of >= 900 mOsm/L. The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis, which manifests as pain, erythema, tenderness or a palpable cord. The catheter should be removed as soon as thrombophlebitis develops. 5.9 Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone-calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium-containing parenteral nutrition solutions, such as PERIKABIVEN(R) in the same intravenous administration line. Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with PERIKABIVEN(R) via a Y-site. However, ceftriaxone and PERIKABIVEN(R) may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ s ee Dosing and Administration (2.1)] . 5.10 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition, including cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, hepatic steatosis, fibrosis and cirrhosis, possibly leading to hepatic failure. The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients. Increase of blood ammonia levels and hyperammonemia may occur in patients receiving amino acid solutions. In some patients this may indicate hepatic insufficiency or the presence of an inborn error of amino acid metabolism [see Contraindications (4)] or hepatic insufficiency. Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia. Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors, and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions. 5.11 Electrolyte and Fluid Imbalance in Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment, such as pre-renal azotemia, renal obstruction and protein-losing nephropathy may be at increased risk of electrolyte and fluid volume imbalance. PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage may require adjustment with specific attention to fluid, protein and electrolyte content in these patients. Monitor renal function parameters. Patients developing signs of renal impairment should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in renal disease in order to determine the appropriate PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage and other treatment options. 5.12 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient's capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion, measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion (baseline value), with each increase in dosage, and regularly throughout treatment. Reduce dose of PERIKABIVEN(R) and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg/dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia. Serum triglyceride levels above 1,000 mg/dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis. Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders, obesity, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome. In these cases, increased triglycerides can also be increased by dextrose and/or overfeeding. Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of lipid and dextrose, as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and dextrose metabolism. 5.13 Aluminum Toxicity PERIKABIVEN(R) contains no more than 25 mcg/L of aluminum. The aluminum contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with impaired kidney function. Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including preterm infants, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products. 5.14 Interference with Laboratory Tests High levels of lipids in plasma may interfere with some laboratory blood tests such as hemoglobin, triglycerides, bilirubin, LDH, and oxygen saturation, if blood is sampled before lipid has been cleared from the bloodstream. Lipids are normally cleared after a lipid-free interval of 5 to 6 hours in most patients. PERIKABIVEN(R) contains Vitamin K1 which may interfere with anticoagulant activity [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 5.15 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease (PNALD) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time, especially preterm infants, and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis. The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial. Intravenously administered phytosterols (plant sterols) contained in plant-derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been established. If PERIKABIVEN(R) treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dosage reduction.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The electrolyte solution contained in compartment A must be mixed with the buffer solution of compartment B before use in order to obtain the reconstituted solution suitable for hemofiltration /hemodiafiltration. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. PrismaSol solution includes several formulations. Selection of a specific formulation depends on the patient's condition and treatment procedures. Administration of the solution should only be under the direction of a physician competent in intensive care treatment including CRRT. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Note that citrate, when used as an anticoagulant, contributes to the base load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Abnormalities in plasma phosphate concentration, especially hypophosphatemia, may also occur. Hypophosphatemia may require phosphate supplementation to maintain plasma concentrations in the physiologic range. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. When connecting solution bags, follow the instructions in this leaflet for correct use of the access ports. Incorrect use of the access port or other restrictions to fluid flow might lead to incorrect patient weight loss and may result in machine alarms. Continuing treatment without resolving the originating cause may result in patient injury or death. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. After heating, verify that the solution remains clear and contains no particulate matter. The solution in compartment A must be mixed with the solution of compartment B before use. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. Diabetes Mellitus or Glucose Intolerance Patients may require initiation of insulin therapy or modification of insulin dosage during treatment with PrismaSol solution. Appropriate monitoring of blood glucose should be performed and insulin dosage adjusted accordingly."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Verify that the solution bag has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. Do not reuse. Discard unused or partially used solution bags. Verify that the ISOPLATE SOLUTION has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. (5)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS ISOPLATE SOLUTION is added to platelets after the apheresis procedure is complete. It is not for direct intravenous infusion. It is expected to cause adverse events that are normally associated with platelet transfusion. ISOPLATE SOLUTION is expected to cause adverse events that are seen with platelet transfusion. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Terumo BCT, Inc. at 1-877-339-4228 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience No adverse reactions were reported in the subjects infused with < 10 mL of radiolabeled platelets stored for 5 days in 65% ISOPLATE SOLUTION, and rinsed prior to infusion [See Clinical Studies (14).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information. Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Fat Overload Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Refeeding Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Diabetes/Hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Thrombophlebitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hepatobiliary disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.15 ) ] Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Hypertriglyceridemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Aluminum toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] The most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, pyrexia, and increased blood triglycerides. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, Vigilance & Medical Affairs at 1-800-551-7176 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The clinical data described for PERIKABIVEN(R) reflects exposure in 93 patients exposed for 5 to 7 days in 4 active-controlled trials. The pooled population exposed to PERIKABIVEN(R) was 18 to 87 years old, 48% female, 73% Caucasian. The enrolled patients had varied underlying conditions such as gastrointestinal disorders (55%), vascular disorders (30%), metabolism and nutrition disorders (28%), respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders (22%), and psychiatric disorders (20%). Most patients received peripheral intravenous infusion doses of >=80% of their target mean daily exposure. Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN(R) are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions in >2% of Patients Treated with PERIKABIVEN(R) Adverse reaction PERIKABIVEN(R) N=93 (%) Hyperglycemia* 5 (5) Hypokalemia 4 (4) Pyrexia 4 (4) Blood triglycerides increased 3 (3) Phlebitis 2 (2) Nausea 2 (2) Pruritus 2 (2) Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 2 (2) Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 2 (2) Alanine aminotransferase increased 2 (2) Blood glucose increased* 2 (2) C-reactive protein increased 2 (2) Blood urea increased 2 (2) Hypoalbuminemia 2 (2) * Terms as reported in clinical studies Less common adverse reactions in <=1% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN were hyperkalemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypernatremia, tachycardia, hypertension, thrombophlebitis, vomiting, jaundice, rash and increased blood bilirubin. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PERIKABIVEN(R) in countries where it is registered. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal distension, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: chest tightness Hepatobiliary disorders: cholestasis Immune system disorders: allergic reaction, anaphylaxis Infections and infestations: infection Vascular disorders: flushed face",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of dialyzable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. 7.1 Citrate When used as an anticoagulant, citrate contributes to the overall buffer load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. Select the PRISMASOL/PHOXILLUM formulation(s) accordingly."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of filterable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. In patients with cardiovascular disease, especially those using cardiac glycoside medications, plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives, including warfarin: Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted; monitor laboratory parameters. (7.1) 7.1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in PERIKABIVEN(R) has vitamin K1. Vitamin K1 can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin or coumarin derivatives, which work by blocking recycling of vitamin K1. Monitoring for anticoagulant activity is recommended in patients who are on both PERIKABIVEN(R) and coumarin or coumarin derivatives.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may occur with any given intrathecal injection due to the chemotherapy or the technique of intrathecal administration. (See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine.) Preservative-free methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be used to minimize adverse reactions due to preservatives. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the administration, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and, if possible, save the remainder of the unused solution(s) for examination."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic reactions or anaphylactoid symptoms such as localized or generalized urticaria and pruritus; periorbital, facial, and/or laryngeal edema; coughing, sneezing, and/or difficulty with breathing have been reported during administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection USP. The reporting frequency of these signs and symptoms is higher in women during pregnancy. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one or two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see Warnings ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see Warnings ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1-2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anaemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Penicillin G Potassium, USP (1 million units contains 1.7 mEq of potassium ion) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact (insert name of manufacturer) at (insert manufacturer's phone number) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one or two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see Warnings ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see Warnings ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1-2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anaemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Penicillin G Potassium, USP (1 million units contains 1.7 mEq of potassium ion) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body As A Whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one to two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity Reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see WARNINGS). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal System Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic System Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis, can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Penicillin G potassium (1 million units contains 0.3 mEq of sodium and 1.68 mEq of potassium) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous System Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital System Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local Reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact WG Critical Care, LLC at 1-866-562-4708 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole: The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections ( i.e. , Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one to two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions: The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see WARNINGS ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e. , fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system: Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system: Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic: Penicillin G Potassium, USP (1 million units contains 1.68 mEq of potassium ion) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system: Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system: Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions: Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1080 or www.FDA.gov ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one to two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventiliation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochaete of host stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - Immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angloneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see WARNINGS ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombspositive hemolytic anemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis, can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection, USP (1 million units contains 0.3 mEq of sodium and 1.68 mEq of potassium) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur with intravenous administration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS - Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and chills - Hyponatremia (applies to solutions containing less than 0.9% Sodium Chloride) Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Intraoperative and perioperative potential hazards of open heart surgery include myocardial infarction, electrocardiographic abnormalities, and arrhythmias, including ventricular fibrillation. Spontaneous recovery after cardioplegic cardiac arrest may be delayed or absent when circulation is restored. Defibrillation by electric shock may be required to restore normal cardiac function."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any other trauma may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Post-operative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any trauma to the corneal endothelium may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Postoperative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions of the infusion site consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis have been reported in the literature with peripheral amino acid infusions. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported in the literature during the peripheral administration of amino acids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Penicillin is a substance of low toxicity but does have a significant index of sensitization. The following hypersensitivity reactions have been reported: skin rashes ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis; urticaria; and reactions resembling serum sickness, including chills, fever, edema, arthralgia and prostration. Severe and occasionally fatal anaphylaxis has occurred (see WARNINGS). Hemolytic anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, nephropathy, and neuropathy are rarely observed adverse reactions and are usually associated with high intravenous dosage. Patients given continuous intravenous therapy with penicillin G potassium in high dosage (10 million to 100 million units daily) may suffer severe or even fatal potassium poisoning, particularly if renal insufficiency is present. Hyperreflexia, convulsions, and coma may be indicative of this syndrome. Cardiac arrhythmias and cardiac arrest may also occur. (High dosage of penicillin G sodium may result in congestive heart failure due to high sodium intake.) The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction has been reported in patients treated for syphilis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions A 3.5% to 5% solution of amino acids (without additives) is slightly hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Electrolyte additives should be spread throughout the day. Irritating additive medications may need to be infused at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distention or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes can be minimized when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue administration of the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions No adverse reactions were identified in Baxter's Adverse Event Reporting System database with Lactated Ringer's Irrigation. Class Reactions Adverse reactions reported with Lactated Ringer's Irrigation (manufacturer unspecified) are: Fluid absorption manifested by Pulmonary edema, Edema, and Electrolyte disturbances. Though not indicated for intravenous administration, absorption of irrigation fluid into tissue or vasculature through a perforation or open wound is possible. As a result, adverse reactions reported with Lactated Ringer's solutions with and without Dextrose for intravenous administration may be applicable and include: -Hypersensitivity reactions, including Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid reactions, with the following manifestations: Angioedema, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Decreased heart rate, Tachycardia, Blood pressure decreased, Respiratory distress, Bronchospasm, Dyspnea, Cough, Urticaria, Rash, Pruritus, Erythema, Flushing, Throat irritation, Paresthesias, Hypoesthesia oral, Dysgeusia, Nausea, Anxiety, Headache, Hyperkalemia -Pyrexia Overdose In the event of clinically relevant absorption of irrigation fluid, the patients must be evaluated and corrective measures instituted as appropriate."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety and headache Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing -Hyperkalemia -Hypervolemia -Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Class Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Hypervolemia Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Hypotension, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Wheezing, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Pyrexia, Chills -Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia, Hyperglycemia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions, reported with PLASMA-LYTE products are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest Pain, Respiratory rate increased, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral -Infusion site pain"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions; Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia was well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia as well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Potassium intoxication with mild or severe hyperkalemia has been reported. The signs and symptoms of intoxication include, paresthesia of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmia, heart block, electrographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. EKG abnormalities serve as a clinical reflection of the seriousness of changes in serum potassium concentrations: peaked T waves and prolonged P-R intervals usually occur with modest elevations above the upper limit of normal potassium concentrations; P waves disappear, the QRS complex widens, and eventual asystole usually occurs with higher elevations. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Infusion of highly concentrated potassium chloride solutions may cause local pain and vein irritation. (See Warnings ). Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain and diarrhea. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Potassium intoxication with mild or severe hyperkalemia has been reported. The signs and symptoms of intoxication include paresthesia of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmia, heart block, electrographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. EKG abnormalities serve as a clinical reflection of the seriousness of changes in serum potassium concentrations: peaked T waves and prolonged P-R intervals usually occur with modest elevations above the upper limit of normal potassium concentrations; P waves disappear, the QRS complex widens, and eventual asystole usually occurs with higher elevations. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Infusion of highly concentrated potassium chloride solutions may cause local pain and vein irritation. (See WARNINGS ). Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain and diarrhea. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the potassium-containing solutions or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection or extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. To rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Potassium-containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues. Therefore, extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration. Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs. Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phelbitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption or neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Dosage and Administration As directed by a physician. Dosage is dependent upon the age, weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Use of final filter is recommended during administration of all parenteral solutions, where possible. Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in flexible plastic containers is intended for intravenous administration. Additives may be incompatible. Complete information is not available. Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used. Consult with pharmacist, if available. If, in the informed judgment of the physician, it is deemed advisable to introduce additives, use aseptic technique. Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced. Do not store solutions containing additives."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Dextrose may be administered at a rate of 0.5 g/kg/hour without producing glycosuria. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria may be a function of rate of administration or metabolic insufficiency. Appropriate therapy may include slowing of the infusion rate and administration of insulin. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing. Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reaction to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of adminstration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and rarely, vein irritiation. Rate of adminstration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does not occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solutions or technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported with potassium therapy. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. Potassium-containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues. Therefore, extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration. Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs. Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported. Should perivascular infiltration occur, I.V. administration at that site should be discontinued at once. Local infiltration of the affected area with procaine hydrochloride, 1%, to which hyaluronidase may be added, will often reduce venospasm and dilute the potassium remaining in the tissues locally. Local application of heat may also be helpful."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS Too rapid infusion of these CLINIMIX E sulfite-free (Amino Acid with Electrolytes in Dextrose with Calcium) Injections may result in diuresis, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and hyperosmolar coma. Continual clinical monitoring of the patient is necessary in order to identify and initiate measures for these clinical conditions. Reactions that may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Policies and procedures should be established for the recognition and management of such reactions. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in TPN Electrolytes. Therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte blood levels is recommended. Sodium excess can cause edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure. Excess potassium can cause deviations from the normal ECG (electrocardiogram). Potassium deficits can impair neuromuscular function, causing muscle weakness or frank paralysis, intestinal dilatation and ileus. Calcium deficits can produce neuromuscular hyperexcitability, ranging from paresthesias, cramps and laryngospasm to tetany and grand mal seizures. Depressed calcium levels can accompany administration of parenteral phosphorous or large amounts of albumin. Magnesium deficiency can precipitate neuromuscular dysfunction, hyperirritability, psychotic behavior, tachycardia and hypertension. Magnesium excess can cause muscle weakness, ECG changes, sedation and mental confusion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning. Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Normosol-R pH 7.4 does not contain calcium to avoid precipitation of calcium salts that may occur when certain drugs are added. Solutions which contain calcium in amounts exceeding the normal plasma concentration may enhance clotting on contact with citrated blood. Hence, Normosol-R pH 7.4 can be used for starting a blood transfusion."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. (See PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution container permits. (See PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. (See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE.)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. (See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE.) Pregnancy Category C. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Plegisol. It is also not known whether this solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Plegisol should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts, and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"Drug Interactions Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect."$$
"Drug Interactions Bacteriostatic antibacterials (i.e., chloramphenicol, erythromycins, sulfonamides or tetracyclines) may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin, and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. This has been documented in vitro, however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well-documented. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Other drugs may compete with penicillin G for renal tubular secretion and thus prolong the serum half-life of penicillin. These drugs include: aspirin, phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, indomethacin, thiazide diuretics, furosemide and ethacrynic acid."$$
"Drug Interactions Bacteriostatic antibacterials (i.e., chloramphenicol, erythromycins, sulfonamides or tetracyclines) may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin, and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. This has been documented in vitro; however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well-documented. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Other drugs may compete with penicillin G for renal tubular secretion and thus prolong the serum half-life of penicillin. These drugs include: aspirin, phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, indomethacin, thiazide diuretics, furosemide and ethacrynic acid."$$
"Drug Interactions Bacteriostatic antibacterials (i.e., chloramphenicol, erythromycins, sulfonamides or tetracyclines) may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin, and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. This has been documented in vitro, however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well-documented. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Other drugs may compete with Penicillin G for renal tubular secretion and thus prolong the serum half-life of penicillin. These drugs include: aspirin, phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, indomethacin, thiazide diuretics, furosemide and ethacrynic acid."$$
"Drug Interactions Because of its antianabolic activity, concurrent administration of tetracycline may reduce the potential anabolic effects of amino acids infused with dextrose as part of a parenteral feeding regimen. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with these medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triameterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be avoided in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with such medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Concurrent administration of bacteriostatic antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, tetracycline) may diminish the bactericidal effects of penicillins by slowing the rate of bacterial growth. Bactericidal agents work most effectively against the immature cell wall of rapidly proliferating microorganisms. This has been demonstrated in vitro; however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well documented. There are few clinical situations in which the concurrent use of \\\\"static\\\\" and \\\\"cidal\\\\" antibiotics are indicated. However, in selected circumstances in which such therapy is appropriate, using adequate doses of antibacterial agents and beginning penicillin therapy first, should minimize the potential for interaction. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Displacement of penicillin from plasma protein binding sites will elevate the level of free penicillin in the serum."$$
"Drug Interactions For information on the use of Ringer's Injection, USP with ceftriaxone, see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections."$$
"Drug Interactions If clinically relevant amounts of solution have been absorbed, potential interactions with other agents must be considered, such as: Patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids and carbenoxolone, may have an increased risk of sodium and fluid retention. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Irrigation may interfere with the elimination of drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent: -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates, barbiturates, and lithium may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, and fenfluramine (phenfluramine) hydrochloride may be decreased. The risk of hyperkalemia is increased in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium-sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triameterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with such medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Absorption of calcium-containing solutions may increase the effects of digitalis and lead to serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmia. In patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, the risk of hypercalcemia is increased."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions: Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics, or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques. Mix thoroughly. Do not store."$$
