"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Gastrointestinal Irritation: Dilute before use, take with meals (5.1) 5.1 Gastrointestinal Irritation May cause gastrointestinal irritation if administered undiluted. Increased dilution of the solution and taking with meals may reduce gastrointestinal irritation [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Gastrointestinal Irritation: Dilute before use, take with meals (5.1) 5.1 Gastrointestinal Irritation May cause gastrointestinal irritation. Increased dilution of the solution and taking with meals may reduce gastrointestinal irritation [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored. Abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PRISMASOL and PHOXILLUM solutions (5.1) Antidiabetic therapy may need adjustment during treatment with dextrose containing formulations (5.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1-800-651-2623 or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 5.1 Electrolyte and Volume Abnormalities Monitor hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance throughout the procedure. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration using PRISMASOL or PHOXILLUM replacement solutions, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by changing the formulations of replacement solution or by supplementation [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.2 Hyperglycemia with Dextrose Containing Solutions The use of PRISMASOL replacement solutions containing dextrose may increase the risk for hyperglycemia in patients with impaired glucose tolerance. Patients may require initiation of or modification of antidiabetic therapy during treatment with PRISMASOL solutions containing dextrose. Monitor blood glucose."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) -Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium-chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., potassium citrate 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium citrate and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with potassium citrate is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium-chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., potassium citrate 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium citrate and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with potassium citrate is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., Potassium Citrate 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium Citrate and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with Potassium Citrate is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Urocit(R)-K administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Urocit(R)-K in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Urocit(R)-K should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Urocit(R)-K administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Urocit(R)-K in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., Urocit(R)-K 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Urocit(R)-K and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with Urocit(R)-K is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Urocit(R)-K should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis, ileus, gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation, gastric retention, toxic colitis, or toxic megacolon General Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of MoviPrep. If a patient experiences severe bloating, abdominal distention, or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate tests should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of MoviPrep(R). Phenylketonurics: MoviPrep contains phenylalanine - a maximum of 2.33 mg of phenylalanine per treatment. No additional ingredients (e.g., flavorings) should be added to the MoviPrep solution. Since MoviPrep contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency especially G-6-PD deficiency patients with an active infection, with a history of hemolysis, or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions. 5.1 SeizuresThere have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with use of polyethylene glycol colon preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia). The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Therefore, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [such as diuretics or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors] or in patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (sodium, potassium, calcium, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKabiven(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. Hypersensitivity reactions: Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur. (5.2) Infection, fat overload, hyperglycemia and refeeding complications : Monitor for signs and symptoms; monitor laboratory parameters. (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7) 5.1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported. Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs. Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion. The safe and effective use of PERIKABIVEN(R) injection in pediatric patients, including preterm infants, has not been established. PERIKABIVEN(R) is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years including preterm infants. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop. Signs or symptoms may include: tachypnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, bronchospasm, tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis, vomiting, nausea, headache, sweating, dizziness, altered mentation, flushing, rash, urticaria, erythema, pyrexia and chills. 5.3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state. Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition, poor maintenance of catheters, or immunosuppressive effects of illness, drugs, and parenteral formulations. Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance, as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula. Monitor for signs and symptoms (including fever and chills) of early infections, including laboratory test results (including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device. 5.4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations. A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipid contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient's condition accompanied by fever, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorders, hyperlipidemia, liver fatty infiltration (hepatomegaly), deteriorating liver function, and central nervous system manifestations (e.g., coma). The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear. The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped. Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dosage was exceeded, cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions. 5.5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome, characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic. Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop. Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes, while avoiding overfeeding, to prevent these complications. 5.6 Diabetes/Hyperglycemia PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKABIVEN(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. 5.7 Monitoring/Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration. Monitor fluid status closely in patients with heart failure or pulmonary edema. Monitor serum triglycerides, fluid and electrolyte status, serum osmolarity, blood glucose, liver and kidney function, and blood count, including platelet and coagulation parameters, throughout treatment. In situations of severely elevated electrolyte levels stop PERIKABIVEN(R) until levels have been corrected. Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for signs and symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) is recommended. Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels. Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status. Increasing essential fatty acid intake (enterally or parenterally) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD. In PERIKABIVEN(R), the mean composition of linoleic acid (an omega-6 essential fatty acid) is 19 mg/mL (range 17 to 20 mg/mL) and alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 essential fatty acid) is 2.3 mg/mL (range 1.8 to 3.8 mg/mL). There are insufficient long-term data to determine whether PERIKABIVEN(R) can supply essential fatty acids in adequate amounts in patients who may have increased requirements. 5.8 Thrombophlebitis PERIKABIVEN(R) is indicated for peripheral administration, or may be infused into a central vein. Peripheral catheters should not be used for solutions with osmolarity of >= 900 mOsm/L. The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis, which manifests as pain, erythema, tenderness or a palpable cord. The catheter should be removed as soon as thrombophlebitis develops. 5.9 Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone-calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium-containing parenteral nutrition solutions, such as PERIKABIVEN(R) in the same intravenous administration line. Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with PERIKABIVEN(R) via a Y-site. However, ceftriaxone and PERIKABIVEN(R) may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ s ee Dosing and Administration (2.1)] . 5.10 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition, including cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, hepatic steatosis, fibrosis and cirrhosis, possibly leading to hepatic failure. The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients. Increase of blood ammonia levels and hyperammonemia may occur in patients receiving amino acid solutions. In some patients this may indicate hepatic insufficiency or the presence of an inborn error of amino acid metabolism [see Contraindications (4)] or hepatic insufficiency. Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia. Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors, and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions. 5.11 Electrolyte and Fluid Imbalance in Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment, such as pre-renal azotemia, renal obstruction and protein-losing nephropathy may be at increased risk of electrolyte and fluid volume imbalance. PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage may require adjustment with specific attention to fluid, protein and electrolyte content in these patients. Monitor renal function parameters. Patients developing signs of renal impairment should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in renal disease in order to determine the appropriate PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage and other treatment options. 5.12 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient's capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion, measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion (baseline value), with each increase in dosage, and regularly throughout treatment. Reduce dose of PERIKABIVEN(R) and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg/dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia. Serum triglyceride levels above 1,000 mg/dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis. Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders, obesity, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome. In these cases, increased triglycerides can also be increased by dextrose and/or overfeeding. Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of lipid and dextrose, as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and dextrose metabolism. 5.13 Aluminum Toxicity PERIKABIVEN(R) contains no more than 25 mcg/L of aluminum. The aluminum contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with impaired kidney function. Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including preterm infants, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products. 5.14 Interference with Laboratory Tests High levels of lipids in plasma may interfere with some laboratory blood tests such as hemoglobin, triglycerides, bilirubin, LDH, and oxygen saturation, if blood is sampled before lipid has been cleared from the bloodstream. Lipids are normally cleared after a lipid-free interval of 5 to 6 hours in most patients. PERIKABIVEN(R) contains Vitamin K1 which may interfere with anticoagulant activity [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 5.15 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease (PNALD) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time, especially preterm infants, and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis. The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial. Intravenously administered phytosterols (plant sterols) contained in plant-derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been established. If PERIKABIVEN(R) treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dosage reduction.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment: Assess concurrent medications and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Risks in patients with renal insufficiency or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function: Use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Mucosal ulcerations and risk of ischemic colitis: Consider potential for mucosal ulcerations when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (5.5) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation: Rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of Suclear. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking Suclear, perform post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse reactions including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with Suclear. Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with certain medical conditions that predispose them (or who are using medications that increase the risk of) fluid and electrolyte disturbances or that may increase the risk of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment. Use of alcohol may increase the risk of dehydration. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Carefully consider the risks of prescribing Suclear for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Consider pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before and after the use of Suclear. Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests in these patients (e.g., electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and Suclear may increase these risks. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease. 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering Suclear. Patients with severe active ulcerative colitis may be at increased risk of exacerbation of their disease with Suclear. 5.7 Use in Patients at Risk of Aspiration and Regurgitation Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during administration of Suclear solution. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion Direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration or other serious adverse reactions. Each bottle must be diluted with water to the recommended final volume."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment - encourage adequate hydration, assess concurrent medications, and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function - use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration \\342\\200\\224observe during administration (5.7) Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G-6-PD) - use with caution (5.8) Contains phenylalanine (5.9) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of MoviPrep. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking MoviPrep consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with MoviPrep. MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] or in patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. Consider performing pre-dose and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (sodium, potassium, calcium, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)] 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use with caution in patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing pre-dose and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 (Colonic) Mucosal Ulceration, Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and MoviPrep may increase the risk and is not recommended. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease. 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering MoviPrep. If a patient experiences severe bloating, abdominal distension, or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until symptoms abate. Use with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of MoviPrep. Use with caution in these patients. 5.8 Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) Deficiency Since MoviPrep contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency, especially G-6-PD deficiency patients with an active infection, with a history of hemolysis, or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions. 5.9 Contains Phenylalanine Phenylketonurics: Contains aspartame 233 mg per treatment which corresponds to 131 mg of phenylalanine per treatment (after hydrolysis of the aspartame molecule in-vivo to aspartic acid and phenylalanine).",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The electrolyte solution contained in compartment A must be mixed with the buffer solution of compartment B before use in order to obtain the reconstituted solution suitable for hemofiltration /hemodiafiltration. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. PrismaSol solution includes several formulations. Selection of a specific formulation depends on the patient's condition and treatment procedures. Administration of the solution should only be under the direction of a physician competent in intensive care treatment including CRRT. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Note that citrate, when used as an anticoagulant, contributes to the base load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Abnormalities in plasma phosphate concentration, especially hypophosphatemia, may also occur. Hypophosphatemia may require phosphate supplementation to maintain plasma concentrations in the physiologic range. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. When connecting solution bags, follow the instructions in this leaflet for correct use of the access ports. Incorrect use of the access port or other restrictions to fluid flow might lead to incorrect patient weight loss and may result in machine alarms. Continuing treatment without resolving the originating cause may result in patient injury or death. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. After heating, verify that the solution remains clear and contains no particulate matter. The solution in compartment A must be mixed with the solution of compartment B before use. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. Diabetes Mellitus or Glucose Intolerance Patients may require initiation of insulin therapy or modification of insulin dosage during treatment with PrismaSol solution. Appropriate monitoring of blood glucose should be performed and insulin dosage adjusted accordingly."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Verify that the solution bag has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. Do not reuse. Discard unused or partially used solution bags. Verify that the ISOPLATE SOLUTION has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. (5)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Studies ExperienceIn the MoviPrep trials, abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain were some of the most common adverse reactions to MoviPrep administration. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of MoviPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse reaction in the clinical studies. Tables 1 and 2 display the most common drug-related adverse reactions of MoviPrep and its comparator in the controlled MoviPrep trials. Table 1: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions* (>= 2%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution MoviPrep(R) (split dose) N=180 4L PEG + E  N=179 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Malaise 35 (19.4) 32 (17.9) Nausea 26 (14.4) 36 (20.1) Abdominal pain 24 (13.3) 27 (15.1) Vomiting 14 (7.8) 23 (12.8) Upper abdominal pain 10 (5.6) 11 (6.1) Dyspepsia 5 (2.8) 2 (1.1) * Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug.  4L PEG + E is 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution Table 2: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions* (>= 5%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution MoviPrep(R) (evening-only) (full dose) N=169 90 mL OSPS  N=171 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Abdominal distension 101 (59.8) 70 (40.9) Anal discomfort 87 (51.5) 89 (52.0) Thirst 80 (47.3) 112 (65.5) Nausea 80 (47.3) 80 (46.8) Abdominal paint 66 (39.1) 55 (32.2) Sleep disorder 59 (34.9) 49 (28.7) Rigors 57 (33.7) 51 (29.8) Hunger 51 (30.2) 121 (70.8) Malaise 45 (26.6) 90 (52.6) Vomiting 12 (7.1) 14 (8.2) Dizziness 11 (6.5) 31 (18.1) Headache 3 (1.8) 9 (5.3) Hypokalemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) Hyperphosphatemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) * Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. In addition to the recording of spontaneous adverse events, patients were also specifically asked about the occurrence of the following symptoms: shivering, anal irritations, abdominal bloating or fullness, sleep loss, nausea, vomiting, weakness, hunger sensation, abdominal cramps or pain, thirst sensation, and dizziness.  OSPS is Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and anaphylactic reaction have been reported with PEG-based products and may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse events following the administration of PEG-based products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events included upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, and acute pulmonary edema after aspirating the PEG-based preparation. 6.2 Postmarketing ExperienceIn addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of MoviPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to MoviPrep, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, urticaria, lip and facial swelling, dyspnea, chest tightness and throat tightness."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS ISOPLATE SOLUTION is added to platelets after the apheresis procedure is complete. It is not for direct intravenous infusion. It is expected to cause adverse events that are normally associated with platelet transfusion. ISOPLATE SOLUTION is expected to cause adverse events that are seen with platelet transfusion. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Terumo BCT, Inc. at 1-877-339-4228 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience No adverse reactions were reported in the subjects infused with < 10 mL of radiolabeled platelets stored for 5 days in 65% ISOPLATE SOLUTION, and rinsed prior to infusion [See Clinical Studies (14).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>=2%) are overall discomfort, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and headache (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Braintree Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-874-6756 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In randomized, multicenter, controlled clinical trials, the effectiveness of Suclear for colon cleansing was compared with two separate preparations containing two liters of polyethylene glycol plus electrolytes (Studies 1 and 2) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Suclear and the comparator preparation were administered entirely the day before the colonoscopy in Study 1, whereas they were administered as split doses in Study 2. In addition to collection of spontaneously reported adverse reactions, patients were instructed to complete a symptom scale questionnaire that targeted expected adverse reactions (overall discomfort, stomach cramping, stomach bloating, and nausea). Patients also were asked separately to report vomiting episodes. Table 1 presents the most common adverse reactions in Study 1 and Study 2. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Observed in At Least 2% of Patients Who Received the Day-Before Regimen or Split-Dose Regimen Adverse Reaction Study 1 (Day-Before Regimen) Study 2 (Split-Dose Regimen) Suclear (N=176) n (%) Comparator 1 (N=190) n (%) Suclear (N=186) n (%) Comparator 2\\342\\200\\241 (N=185) n (%) #Include spontaneously reported adverse reactions as well as those reported in a symptom scale questionnaire. *Abdominal pain also included reports of upper abdominal pain and abdominal tenderness.  Comparator 1: PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution; and two bisacodyl 5-mg delayed-release tablets. \\342\\200\\241 Comparator 2: PEG-3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid for oral solution. Overall discomfort# 122 (69) 108 (57) 116 (62) 121 (65) Abdominal distension# 92 (52) 85 (45) 96 (52) 112 (61) Abdominal pain#* 71 (40) 78 (41) 70 (38) 79 (43) Nausea# 74 (42) 75 (40) 86 (46) 72 (39) Vomiting# 19 (11) 15 (8) 26 (14) 13 (7) Headache 1 (1) 3 (2) 3 (2) 2 (1) Electrolyte Abnormalities Table 2 presents the incidence of new laboratory abnormalities in Study 1 and Study 2. Table 2: Shifts from Normal at Baseline to Outside the Normal Range on the Day of Colonoscopy (for n/N, n= number with the event and N= number with normal baseline value) Laboratory Parameter (direction of change) Study 1: Day-Before Regimen Study 2: Split-Dose Regimen Suclear % (n/N) Comparator 1 % (n/N) Suclear % (n/N) Comparator 2\\342\\200\\241 % (n/N)  Comparator 1: PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution; and two bisacodyl 5-mg delayed-release tablets. \\342\\200\\241 Comparator 2: PEG-3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid for oral solution. *Anion gap was calculated using the following formula: [Sodium (mEq/L)] - [Chloride (mEq/L)] + [Bicarbonate (mEq/L)]. Normal range was defined as 12\\302\\2614, and high was defined as a calculated value >16. **eGFR was calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. Anion gap (high)* 3% (5/155) 5% (8/170) 10% (17/166) 8% (12/155) Bicarbonate (low) 3% (4/156) 3% (5/167) 4% (6/170) 12% (20/161) Bilirubin, total (high) 8% (12/157) 10% (17/170) 11% (19/170) 4% (6/162) Calcium (high) 9% (12/139) 4% (5/139) 4% (6/141) 5% (7/144) Chloride (low) 1% (1/157) 0% (0/171) 1% (1/173) 0% (0/163) Creatinine (high) 2% (3/145) 3% (4/155) 1% (2/167) 1% (1/153) Creatine kinase (high) 7% (10/138) 4% (6/151) 7% (10/147) 5% (7/143) eGFR (low)** 25% (21/84) 14% (12/88) 9% (9/101) 11% (9/85) Glucose (high) 7% (10/146) 3% (4/156) 2% (3/160) 3% (5/150) Magnesium (low) 1% (1/158) 1% (1/169) 0% (0/169) 1% (1/163) Osmolality (high) 2% (3/139) 5% (8/153) 4% (6/151) 8% (12/145) Phosphate (low) 0% (0/155) 0% (0/168) 3% (5/171) 1% (2/160) Potassium (low) 4% (5/144) 3% (4/160) 4% (6/162) 4% (7/159) Sodium (low) 0% (0/157) 0% (0/169) 1% (1/169) 1% (1/163) Uric acid (high) 6% (8/143) 7% (11/160) 4% (7/163) 3% (4/154)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions for split dosing (incidence \\302\\263 5%) are malaise, nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, and upper abdominal pain (6). The most common adverse reactions for evening only dosing (incidence \\302\\263 5%) are abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, abdominal pain, sleep disorder, rigors, hunger, malaise, vomiting, and dizziness (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-508-0024 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In the MoviPrep trials, abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain were some of the most common adverse reactions to MoviPrep administration. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of MoviPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse reaction in the clinical studies. Tables 1 and 2 display the most common drug-related adverse reactions of MoviPrep and its comparator in the controlled MoviPrep trials. Table 1: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions1 (>= 2%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 4 Liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution MoviPrep(R) (split dose) N=180 4L PEG + E2 N=179 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Malaise 35 (19.4) 32 (17.9) Nausea 26 (14.4) 36 (20.1) Abdominal pain 24 (13.3) 27 (15.1) Vomiting 14 (7.8) 23 (12.8) Upper abdominal pain 10 (5.6) 11 (6.1) Dyspepsia 5 (2.8) 2 (1.1) 1 Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. 2 4L PEG + E is 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution Table 2: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions1 (>= 5%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution MoviPrep(R) (evening-only) (full dose) N=169 90 mL OSPS2 N=171 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Abdominal distension 101 (59.8) 70 (40.9) Anal discomfort 87 (51.5) 89 (52.0) Thirst 80 (47.3) 112 (65.5) Nausea 80 (47.3) 80 (46.8) Abdominal pain 66 (39.1) 55 (32.2) Sleep disorder 59 (34.9) 49 (28.7) Rigors 57 (33.7) 51 (29.8) Hunger 51 (30.2) 121 (70.8) Malaise 45 (26.6) 90 (52.6) Vomiting 12 (7.1) 14 (8.2) Dizziness 11 (6.5) 31 (18.1) Headache 3 (1.8) 9 (5.3) Hypokalemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) Hyperphosphatemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) 1 Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. In addition to the recording of spontaneous adverse events, patients were also specifically asked about the occurrence of the following symptoms: shivering, anal irritations, abdominal bloating or fullness, sleep loss, nausea, vomiting, weakness, hunger sensation, abdominal cramps or pain, thirst sensation, and dizziness. 2 OSPS is Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and anaphylactic reaction have been reported with PEG-based products and may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse events following the administration of PEG-based products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events included upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, and acute pulmonary edema after aspirating PEG-based preparation. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of MoviPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to MoviPrep, or a combination of these factors. Cardiovascular: Tachycardia, palpitations, hypertension, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, peripheral edema. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis (some of which were severe, including shock), rash, urticaria, pruritus, lip, tongue and facial swelling, dyspnea, chest tightness and throat tightness. Fever, chills and dehydration. Nervous system: Syncope, tremor, seizure. Renal: Renal impairment and/or failure.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact contact BioComp Pharma at 1-866-762-2365 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during Potassium Citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mission Pharmacal Company at 1-800-298-1087 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during Urocit(R)-K therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc. at 1-855-899-9180 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS -Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. at 1-877-993-8779 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. at 1-877-993-8779 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information. Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Fat Overload Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Refeeding Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Diabetes/Hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Thrombophlebitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hepatobiliary disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.15 ) ] Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Hypertriglyceridemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Aluminum toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] The most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, pyrexia, and increased blood triglycerides. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, Vigilance & Medical Affairs at 1-800-551-7176 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The clinical data described for PERIKABIVEN(R) reflects exposure in 93 patients exposed for 5 to 7 days in 4 active-controlled trials. The pooled population exposed to PERIKABIVEN(R) was 18 to 87 years old, 48% female, 73% Caucasian. The enrolled patients had varied underlying conditions such as gastrointestinal disorders (55%), vascular disorders (30%), metabolism and nutrition disorders (28%), respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders (22%), and psychiatric disorders (20%). Most patients received peripheral intravenous infusion doses of >=80% of their target mean daily exposure. Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN(R) are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions in >2% of Patients Treated with PERIKABIVEN(R) Adverse reaction PERIKABIVEN(R) N=93 (%) Hyperglycemia* 5 (5) Hypokalemia 4 (4) Pyrexia 4 (4) Blood triglycerides increased 3 (3) Phlebitis 2 (2) Nausea 2 (2) Pruritus 2 (2) Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 2 (2) Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 2 (2) Alanine aminotransferase increased 2 (2) Blood glucose increased* 2 (2) C-reactive protein increased 2 (2) Blood urea increased 2 (2) Hypoalbuminemia 2 (2) * Terms as reported in clinical studies Less common adverse reactions in <=1% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN were hyperkalemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypernatremia, tachycardia, hypertension, thrombophlebitis, vomiting, jaundice, rash and increased blood bilirubin. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PERIKABIVEN(R) in countries where it is registered. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal distension, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: chest tightness Hepatobiliary disorders: cholestasis Immune system disorders: allergic reaction, anaphylaxis Infections and infestations: infection Vascular disorders: flushed face",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. Most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact 727-530-1633 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. Most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pharm-Olam at 1-866-511-6754 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. Most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pharm-Olam at 1-866-511-6754 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of dialyzable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. 7.1 Citrate When used as an anticoagulant, citrate contributes to the overall buffer load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. Select the PRISMASOL/PHOXILLUM formulation(s) accordingly."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of filterable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. In patients with cardiovascular disease, especially those using cardiac glycoside medications, plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives, including warfarin: Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted; monitor laboratory parameters. (7.1) 7.1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in PERIKABIVEN(R) has vitamin K1. Vitamin K1 can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin or coumarin derivatives, which work by blocking recycling of vitamin K1. Monitoring for anticoagulant activity is recommended in patients who are on both PERIKABIVEN(R) and coumarin or coumarin derivatives.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2). Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives may increase the risk of ischemic colitis (7.3). 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Certain medical conditions and concomitant medications may increase the risk for developing fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities when taking Suclear. This includes patients receiving drugs which may be associated with hypokalemia (such as diuretics or corticosteroids, or drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk, such as cardiac glycosides) or hyponatremia. Use caution when Suclear is used in patients on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) or drugs known to induce Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH), such as tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, antipsychotic drugs and carbamazepine, as these drugs may increase the risk of water retention and/or electrolyte imbalance. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each Suclear dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and Suclear may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking Suclear."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral medication administered within 1 hour of the start of administration of MoviPrep may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral medications may not be absorbed when administered while taking MoviPrep (7). 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients with conditions, or who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate. [See WARNINGS (5)] 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within 1 hour of the start of administration of MoviPrep may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium sparing diuretics: Avoid concomitant use (7.1) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.2) Angiotensin receptor blockers: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.3) 7.1 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics Use with potassium-sparing diuretic can produce severe hyperkalemia. Avoid concomitant use. 7.2 Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Use with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors produces potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ACE inhibitors only with close monitoring. 7.3 Angiotensin Receptor Blockers Use with angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) produces potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ARBs only with close monitoring."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: -Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) -Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of potassium citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of potassium citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with Potassium Citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium Citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of Potassium Citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium Citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of Urocit(R)-K and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of combined potassium and phosphorus intoxication from overdosage. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. Phosphorus intoxication results in a reduction of serum calcium and the symptoms are those of hypocalcemic tetany. See WARNINGS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may occur with any given intrathecal injection due to the chemotherapy or the technique of intrathecal administration. (See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine.) Preservative-free methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be used to minimize adverse reactions due to preservatives. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the administration, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and, if possible, save the remainder of the unused solution(s) for examination."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Call your medical practitioner about side effects. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea, and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic reactions or anaphylactoid symptoms such as localized or generalized urticaria and pruritus; periorbital, facial, and/or laryngeal edema; coughing, sneezing, and/or difficulty with breathing have been reported during administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection USP. The reporting frequency of these signs and symptoms is higher in women during pregnancy. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid, as well as possibly the use of other forms of folates - including reduced folates. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine hydrochloride. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with cyanocobalamin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-999-8408 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. T o report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Although the incidence of reactions to oral penicillins has been reported with much less frequency than following parenteral therapy, it should be remembered that all degrees of hypersensitivity, including fatal anaphylaxis, have been reported with oral penicillin. The most common reactions to oral penicillin are nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, diarrhea, and black hairy tongue. The hypersensitivity reactions reported are skin eruptions (maculopapular to exfoliative dermatitis), urticaria and other serum-sicknesslike reactions, laryngeal edema, and anaphylaxis. Fever and eosinophilia may frequently be the only reaction observed. Hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, neuropathy, and nephropathy are infrequent reactions and usually associated with high doses of parenteral penicillin."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain and vomiting) may occur with phosphate therapy. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed (primarily from sodium or potassium): headaches; dizziness; mental confusion; seizures; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness or weakness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness of hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; fast or irregular heartbeat; shortness of breath or troubled breathing; swelling of feet or lower legs; unusual weight gain; low urine output; unusual thirst."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, and vomiting) may occur with phosphate therapy. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed (primarily from sodium or potassium): headaches; dizziness; mental confusion; seizures; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness or weakness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain or weakness of hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; fast or irregular heartbeat; shortness of breath or troubled breathing; swelling of feet or lower legs; unusual weight gain; low urine output; unusual thirst."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, and vomiting) may occur with the use of potassium phosphate. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed with potassium administration: irregular heartbeat; dizziness; mental confusion; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; shortness of breath or troubled breathing."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 718 patients treated for shorter periods, i.e., 2 weeks or less, with Cataflam(R) (diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets), adverse reactions were reported one-half to one-tenth as frequently as by patients treated for longer periods. In a 6-month, double-blind trial comparing Cataflam (N=196) versus Voltaren(R) (diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets) (N=197) versus ibuprofen (N=197), adverse reactions were similar in nature and frequency. In patients taking Cataflam or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 718 patients treated for shorter periods, i.e., 2 weeks or less, with diclofenac potassium tablets, adverse reactions were reported one-half to one-tenth as frequently as by patients treated for longer periods. In a 6 month, double-blind trial comparing diclofenac potassium tablets (N = 196) versus diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets (N = 197) versus ibuprofen (N = 197), adverse reactions were similar in nature and frequency. In patients taking diclofenac potassium tablets or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 718 patients treated for shorter periods, i.e., 2 weeks or less, with diclofenac potassium tablets, adverse reactions were reported one-half to one-tenth as frequently as by patients treated for longer periods. In a 6 month, double-blind trial comparing diclofenac potassium tablets (N = 196) versus diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets (N = 197) versus ibuprofen (N = 197), adverse reactions were similar in nature and frequency. In patients taking diclofenac potassium tablets or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole:fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System:congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System:ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System:asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages:alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses:blurred vision Urogenital System:cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole:anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System:arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System:colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System:agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:hyperglycemia Nervous System:convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System:respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages:angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses:conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 718 patients treated for shorter periods, i.e., 2 weeks or less, with diclofenac potassium tablets, adverse reactions were reported one-half to one-tenth as frequently as by patients treated for longer periods. In a 6 month, double-blind trial comparing diclofenac potassium tablets (N = 196) versus diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets (N = 197) versus ibuprofen (N = 197), adverse reactions were similar in nature and frequency. In patients taking diclofenac potassium tablets or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal), and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes, and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole : fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System : congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System : dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional : weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In 718 patients treated for shorter periods, i.e., 2 weeks or less, with diclofenac potassium tablets, adverse reactions were reported one-half to one-tenth as frequently as by patients treated for longer periods. In a 6 month, double-blind trial comparing diclofenac potassium tablets (N = 196) versus diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets (N = 197) versus ibuprofen (N = 197), adverse reactions were similar in nature and frequency. In patients taking diclofenac potassium tablets or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: fever, infection, sepsis Body as a Whole: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Cardiovascular System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Digestive System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic System: weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Nervous System: asthma, dyspnea Respiratory System: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Skin and Appendages: blurred vision Special Senses: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Urogenital System: Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Cardiovascular System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Digestive System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic System: hyperglycemia Metabolic and Nutritional: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Nervous System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory System: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Skin and Appendages: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment Special Senses:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Intraoperative and perioperative potential hazards of open heart surgery include myocardial infarction, electrocardiographic abnormalities, and arrhythmias, including ventricular fibrillation. Spontaneous recovery after cardioplegic cardiac arrest may be delayed or absent when circulation is restored. Defibrillation by electric shock may be required to restore normal cardiac function."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any other trauma may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Post-operative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any trauma to the corneal endothelium may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Postoperative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions of the infusion site consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis have been reported in the literature with peripheral amino acid infusions. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported in the literature during the peripheral administration of amino acids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No adverse events have been reported with a causal relationship Thonsilla compositum(R) Oral Vials."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions A 3.5% to 5% solution of amino acids (without additives) is slightly hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Electrolyte additives should be spread throughout the day. Irritating additive medications may need to be infused at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions Aminosyn 3.5% M* Sulfite-Free, (a crystalline amino acid solution* with maintenance electrolytes) is hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may need to be injected at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distention or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety and headache Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing -Hyperkalemia -Hypervolemia -Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Class Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Hypervolemia Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the potassium-containing solutions or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection or extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. To rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Potassium-containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues. Therefore, extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration. Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs. Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phelbitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption or neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing. Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of adminstration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and rarely, vein irritiation. Rate of adminstration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does not occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solutions or technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported with potassium therapy. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. Potassium-containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues. Therefore, extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration. Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs. Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported. Should perivascular infiltration occur, I.V. administration at that site should be discontinued at once. Local infiltration of the affected area with procaine hydrochloride, 1%, to which hyaluronidase may be added, will often reduce venospasm and dilute the potassium remaining in the tissues locally. Local application of heat may also be helpful."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION In 718 patients treated for shorter periods, i.e., 2 weeks or less, with diclofenac potassium tablets, adverse reactions were reported one-half to one-tenth as frequently as by patients treated for longer periods. In a 6 month, double-blind trial comparing diclofenac potassium tablets (N = 196) versus diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets (N = 197) versus ibuprofen (N = 197), adverse reactions were similar in nature and frequency. In patients taking diclofenac potassium tablets or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS Too rapid infusion of these CLINIMIX E sulfite-free (Amino Acid with Electrolytes in Dextrose with Calcium) Injections may result in diuresis, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and hyperosmolar coma. Continual clinical monitoring of the patient is necessary in order to identify and initiate measures for these clinical conditions. Reactions that may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Policies and procedures should be established for the recognition and management of such reactions. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snack, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in feces. (see also CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in TPN Electrolytes. Therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte blood levels is recommended. Sodium excess can cause edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure. Excess potassium can cause deviations from the normal ECG (electrocardiogram). Potassium deficits can impair neuromuscular function, causing muscle weakness or frank paralysis, intestinal dilatation and ileus. Calcium deficits can produce neuromuscular hyperexcitability, ranging from paresthesias, cramps and laryngospasm to tetany and grand mal seizures. Depressed calcium levels can accompany administration of parenteral phosphorous or large amounts of albumin. Magnesium deficiency can precipitate neuromuscular dysfunction, hyperirritability, psychotic behavior, tachycardia and hypertension. Magnesium excess can cause muscle weakness, ECG changes, sedation and mental confusion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning. Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS To report suspected adverse reactions, contact Dharma Research, Inc. at 1-877-833-3725 or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution container permits. (See PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. (See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE.)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. (See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE.) Pregnancy Category C. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Plegisol. It is also not known whether this solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Plegisol should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts, and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"Drug Interactions Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Aspirin: Methotrexate:NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine:Diclofenac potassium tablets, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac potassium tablets may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac potassium tablets are administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE Inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide:Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium:NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin:The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers:Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Coadministration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas coadministration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers, a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine Diclofenac potassium tablets, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac potassium tablets may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac potassium tablets are administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin: When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine: Diclofenac potassium tablets, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac potassium tablets may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac potassium tablets are administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Coadministration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas coadministration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers, a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions)."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Aspirin: When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine: Diclofenac potassium tablets, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac potassium tablets may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac potassium tablets are administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Coadministration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas coadministration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers, a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions)."$$
"Drug Interactions Because of its antianabolic activity, concurrent administration of tetracycline may reduce the potential anabolic effects of amino acids infused with dextrose as part of a parenteral feeding regimen. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be avoided in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with such medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. V-Natal Tabs does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate** include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-HEME OB Tabs does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate include but are not limited to: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folate may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce the effectiveness of first generation anticonvulsants and/or increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible patients. Caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) on folate levels is limited and interactions cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. Levodopa: Levodopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B6 include but are not limited to: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa may be antagonized by vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 may or may not interfere with levodopa even when used concurrently with carbidopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 include but are not limited to: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions For information on the use of Ringer's Injection, USP with ceftriaxone, see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics, or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques. Mix thoroughly. Do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions: The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Calcium-containing preparations and/or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia. Potassium-containing medication or potassium-sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals."$$
"Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin, with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Calciumcontaining preparations and/or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia. Potassium-containing medications or potassium-sparingdiuretics may cause hyperkalemia. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals."$$
"Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin, with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Potassium-containing medications or potassium-sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia when used wi t h potassium phosphate. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals. Plasma levels of salicylates may be increased since salicylate excretion is decreased in acidified urine. Administration of monobasic phosphates to patients stabilized on salicylates may lead to toxic salicylate levels."$$
"Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium, calcium, or aluminum in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Potassium-containing medications or potassium-sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia when used concurrently with potassium salts. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals. Concurrent use of salicylates may lead to increased serum salicylate levels since excretion of salicylates is reduced in acidified urine. Serum salicylate levels should be closely monitored to avoid toxicity."$$
"Drug Interactions When co-administered with voriconazole (inhibitor of CYP2C9, 2C19 and 3A4 enzyme), the Cmax and AUC of diclofenac increased by 114% and 78%, respectively (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions).",$$
"Drug Interactions When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Aspirin: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Methotrexate: Diclofenac potassium tablets, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac potassium tablets may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac potassium tablets are administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. Cyclosporine: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. ACE Inhibitors: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see , ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Furosemide: WARNINGS Renal Effects NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Lithium: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Warfarin: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Coadministration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas coadministration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers, a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see , , ). CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Drug Interactions"$$
"INTERACTIONS Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Drugs which may interact with folate include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED), The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of this AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy."$$
"Safe - soothing - preservative free - no side effects - no drug interactions - works naturally with your body"$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Do not swallow. Keep out of reach of children. Read prescribing information fully before using this product. If product is accidentially swallowed in quantities greater than would normally occur with a toothpaste, seek medical help right away. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist. See your dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Do not use this product for longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or physician."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. This product contains formate, which if consumed above the recommended level, could cause visual impairment and other effects on health. Do not exceed recommended dosage. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Warnings and Precautions None"$$
