""$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS \\302\\267 Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. (5.2) \\302\\267 Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) \\302\\267 Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) \\302\\267 Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) \\302\\267 Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume-or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume-or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contain losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Gastrointestinal Irritation: Dilute before use, take with meals (5.1) 5.1 Gastrointestinal Irritation May cause gastrointestinal irritation if administered undiluted. Increased dilution of the solution and taking with meals may reduce gastrointestinal irritation [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Gastrointestinal Irritation: Dilute before use, take with meals (5.1) 5.1 Gastrointestinal Irritation May cause gastrointestinal irritation. Increased dilution of the solution and taking with meals may reduce gastrointestinal irritation [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored. Abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PRISMASOL and PHOXILLUM solutions (5.1) Antidiabetic therapy may need adjustment during treatment with dextrose containing formulations (5.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1-800-651-2623 or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 5.1 Electrolyte and Volume Abnormalities Monitor hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance throughout the procedure. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration using PRISMASOL or PHOXILLUM replacement solutions, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by changing the formulations of replacement solution or by supplementation [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.2 Hyperglycemia with Dextrose Containing Solutions The use of PRISMASOL replacement solutions containing dextrose may increase the risk for hyperglycemia in patients with impaired glucose tolerance. Patients may require initiation of or modification of antidiabetic therapy during treatment with PRISMASOL solutions containing dextrose. Monitor blood glucose."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) -Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium-chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., potassium citrate 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium citrate and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with potassium citrate is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, potassium citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of potassium citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium-chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., potassium citrate 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium citrate and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with potassium citrate is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, potassium citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., Potassium Citrate 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium Citrate and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with Potassium Citrate is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hyperkalemia: In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Urocit(R)-K administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Urocit(R)-K in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided (5.1) Gastrointestinal lesions: if there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Urocit(R)-K should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated (5.2) 5.1 Hyperkalemia In patients with impaired mechanisms for excreting potassium, Urocit(R)-K administration can produce hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest. Potentially fatal hyperkalemia can develop rapidly and be asymptomatic. The use of Urocit(R)-K in patients with chronic renal failure, or any other condition which impairs potassium excretion such as severe myocardial damage or heart failure, should be avoided. Closely monitor for signs of hyperkalemia with periodic blood tests and ECGs. 5.2 Gastrointestinal Lesions Because of reports of upper gastrointestinal mucosal lesions following administration of potassium chloride (wax-matrix), an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa was performed in 30 normal volunteers after they had taken glycopyrrolate 2 mg p.o. t.i.d., Urocit(R)-K 95 mEq/day, wax-matrix potassium chloride 96 mEq/day or wax-matrix placebo, in thrice daily schedule in the fasting state for one week. Urocit(R)-K and the wax-matrix formulation of potassium chloride were indistinguishable but both were significantly more irritating than the wax-matrix placebo. In a subsequent, similar study, lesions were less severe when glycopyrrolate was omitted. Solid dosage forms of potassium chlorides have produced stenotic and/or ulcerative lesions of the small bowel and deaths. These lesions are caused by a high local concentration of potassium ions in the region of the dissolving tablets, which injured the bowel. In addition, perhaps because wax-matrix preparations are not enteric-coated and release some of their potassium content in the stomach, there have been reports of upper gastrointestinal bleeding associated with these products. The frequency of gastrointestinal lesions with wax-matrix potassium chloride products is estimated at one per 100,000 patient-years. Experience with Urocit(R)-K is limited, but a similar frequency of gastrointestinal lesions should be anticipated. If there is severe vomiting, abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding, Urocit(R)-K should be discontinued immediately and the possibility of bowel perforation or obstruction investigated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of HYZAAR. (5.2) Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue HYZAAR as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with HYZAAR. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of HYZAAR. Do not use HYZAAR as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on HYZAAR. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on HYZAAR [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. HYZAAR contains hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. HYZAAR also contains losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. (5.2) Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin-\\302\\255angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide contains hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide also contains losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide. (5.2) Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide. Do not use Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin\\302\\255angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide contains hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide also contains losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. ( ) 5.2 Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. ( ) 5.3 Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. ( ) 5.5 Acute angle-closure glaucoma. ( ) 5.6 Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. ( ) 5.7 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations ( )]. 8.1 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide . [see Drug Interactions ( ) and Use in Specific Populations ( )] 7.3 8.8 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide contains hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide also contains losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically . [see Drug Interactions ( )] 7.1 Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. (5.2) Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin-\\302\\255angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contains losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. (5.2) -Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) -Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) -Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) -Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume-or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the reninangiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet contains hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet also contains losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. (5.2) -Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) -Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) -Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) -Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the rennin-angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium < 3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium > 5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contain losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. (5.2) Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the rennin-angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets . [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)] 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contain losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically . [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. (5.2) Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3) Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance. (5.5) Acute angle-closure glaucoma. (5.6) Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus. (5.7) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume- or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Do not use losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion. 5.3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the rennin-angiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 5.5 Electrolyte and Metabolic Effects In double-blind clinical trials of various doses of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, the incidence of hypertensive patients who developed hypokalemia (serum potassium <3.5 mEq/L) was 6.7% versus 3.5% for placebo; the incidence of hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.7 mEq/L) was 0.4% versus 0% for placebo. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets contain hydrochlorothiazide which can cause hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets also contain losartan which can cause hyperkalemia. Monitor serum electrolytes periodically [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in patients receiving thiazide therapy. Because losartan decreases uric acid, losartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium. Monitor calcium levels. 5.6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. 5.7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. 5.8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hypotension: Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium tablets. (5.2) - Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients. (5.3, 5.4) 5.1 Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium tablets as soon as possible [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.2 Hypotension in Volume- or Salt-Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin-angiotensin system, such as volume-or salt-depleted patients (e.g., those being treated with high doses of diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with losartan potassium tablets. Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of losartan potassium tablets [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. 5.3 Renal Function Deterioration Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the reninangiotensin system and by diuretics. Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin-angiotensin system (e.g., patients with renal artery stenosis, chronic kidney disease, severe congestive heart failure, or volume depletion) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on losartan potassium tablets. Monitor renal function periodically in these patients. Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on losartan potassium tablets [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. 5.4 Hyperkalemia Monitor serum potassium periodically and treat appropriately. Dosage reduction or discontinuation of losartan potassium tablets may be required [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis, ileus, gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation, gastric retention, toxic colitis, or toxic megacolon General Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of MoviPrep. If a patient experiences severe bloating, abdominal distention, or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate tests should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of MoviPrep(R). Phenylketonurics: MoviPrep contains phenylalanine - a maximum of 2.33 mg of phenylalanine per treatment. No additional ingredients (e.g., flavorings) should be added to the MoviPrep solution. Since MoviPrep contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency especially G-6-PD deficiency patients with an active infection, with a history of hemolysis, or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions. 5.1 SeizuresThere have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with use of polyethylene glycol colon preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia). The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Therefore, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [such as diuretics or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors] or in patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (sodium, potassium, calcium, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKabiven(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. Hypersensitivity reactions: Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur. (5.2) Infection, fat overload, hyperglycemia and refeeding complications : Monitor for signs and symptoms; monitor laboratory parameters. (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7) 5.1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported. Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs. Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion. The safe and effective use of PERIKABIVEN(R) injection in pediatric patients, including preterm infants, has not been established. PERIKABIVEN(R) is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years including preterm infants. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop. Signs or symptoms may include: tachypnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, bronchospasm, tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis, vomiting, nausea, headache, sweating, dizziness, altered mentation, flushing, rash, urticaria, erythema, pyrexia and chills. 5.3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state. Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition, poor maintenance of catheters, or immunosuppressive effects of illness, drugs, and parenteral formulations. Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance, as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula. Monitor for signs and symptoms (including fever and chills) of early infections, including laboratory test results (including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device. 5.4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations. A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipid contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient's condition accompanied by fever, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorders, hyperlipidemia, liver fatty infiltration (hepatomegaly), deteriorating liver function, and central nervous system manifestations (e.g., coma). The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear. The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped. Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dosage was exceeded, cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions. 5.5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome, characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic. Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop. Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes, while avoiding overfeeding, to prevent these complications. 5.6 Diabetes/Hyperglycemia PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKABIVEN(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. 5.7 Monitoring/Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration. Monitor fluid status closely in patients with heart failure or pulmonary edema. Monitor serum triglycerides, fluid and electrolyte status, serum osmolarity, blood glucose, liver and kidney function, and blood count, including platelet and coagulation parameters, throughout treatment. In situations of severely elevated electrolyte levels stop PERIKABIVEN(R) until levels have been corrected. Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for signs and symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) is recommended. Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels. Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status. Increasing essential fatty acid intake (enterally or parenterally) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD. In PERIKABIVEN(R), the mean composition of linoleic acid (an omega-6 essential fatty acid) is 19 mg/mL (range 17 to 20 mg/mL) and alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 essential fatty acid) is 2.3 mg/mL (range 1.8 to 3.8 mg/mL). There are insufficient long-term data to determine whether PERIKABIVEN(R) can supply essential fatty acids in adequate amounts in patients who may have increased requirements. 5.8 Thrombophlebitis PERIKABIVEN(R) is indicated for peripheral administration, or may be infused into a central vein. Peripheral catheters should not be used for solutions with osmolarity of >= 900 mOsm/L. The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis, which manifests as pain, erythema, tenderness or a palpable cord. The catheter should be removed as soon as thrombophlebitis develops. 5.9 Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone-calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium-containing parenteral nutrition solutions, such as PERIKABIVEN(R) in the same intravenous administration line. Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with PERIKABIVEN(R) via a Y-site. However, ceftriaxone and PERIKABIVEN(R) may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ s ee Dosing and Administration (2.1)] . 5.10 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition, including cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, hepatic steatosis, fibrosis and cirrhosis, possibly leading to hepatic failure. The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients. Increase of blood ammonia levels and hyperammonemia may occur in patients receiving amino acid solutions. In some patients this may indicate hepatic insufficiency or the presence of an inborn error of amino acid metabolism [see Contraindications (4)] or hepatic insufficiency. Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia. Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors, and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions. 5.11 Electrolyte and Fluid Imbalance in Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment, such as pre-renal azotemia, renal obstruction and protein-losing nephropathy may be at increased risk of electrolyte and fluid volume imbalance. PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage may require adjustment with specific attention to fluid, protein and electrolyte content in these patients. Monitor renal function parameters. Patients developing signs of renal impairment should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in renal disease in order to determine the appropriate PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage and other treatment options. 5.12 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient's capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion, measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion (baseline value), with each increase in dosage, and regularly throughout treatment. Reduce dose of PERIKABIVEN(R) and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg/dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia. Serum triglyceride levels above 1,000 mg/dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis. Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders, obesity, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome. In these cases, increased triglycerides can also be increased by dextrose and/or overfeeding. Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of lipid and dextrose, as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and dextrose metabolism. 5.13 Aluminum Toxicity PERIKABIVEN(R) contains no more than 25 mcg/L of aluminum. The aluminum contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with impaired kidney function. Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including preterm infants, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products. 5.14 Interference with Laboratory Tests High levels of lipids in plasma may interfere with some laboratory blood tests such as hemoglobin, triglycerides, bilirubin, LDH, and oxygen saturation, if blood is sampled before lipid has been cleared from the bloodstream. Lipids are normally cleared after a lipid-free interval of 5 to 6 hours in most patients. PERIKABIVEN(R) contains Vitamin K1 which may interfere with anticoagulant activity [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 5.15 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease (PNALD) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time, especially preterm infants, and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis. The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial. Intravenously administered phytosterols (plant sterols) contained in plant-derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been established. If PERIKABIVEN(R) treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dosage reduction.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment: Assess concurrent medications and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Risks in patients with renal insufficiency or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function: Use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Mucosal ulcerations and risk of ischemic colitis: Consider potential for mucosal ulcerations when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (5.5) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation: Rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of Suclear. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking Suclear, perform post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse reactions including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with Suclear. Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with certain medical conditions that predispose them (or who are using medications that increase the risk of) fluid and electrolyte disturbances or that may increase the risk of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment. Use of alcohol may increase the risk of dehydration. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Carefully consider the risks of prescribing Suclear for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Consider pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before and after the use of Suclear. Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests in these patients (e.g., electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and Suclear may increase these risks. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease. 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering Suclear. Patients with severe active ulcerative colitis may be at increased risk of exacerbation of their disease with Suclear. 5.7 Use in Patients at Risk of Aspiration and Regurgitation Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during administration of Suclear solution. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion Direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration or other serious adverse reactions. Each bottle must be diluted with water to the recommended final volume."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment - assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Patients with renal impairment - use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.3) Ischemic colitis has been reported (5.5) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP. In addition, use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment.[See Drug Interactions (7.1)] 5.2 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of large volume (4 liter) PEG-based colon preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing the GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, patients with known or suspected hyponatremia, or patients using concomitant medications (such as diuretics) that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities. Monitor baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (sodium, potassium, calcium, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.3 Renal Impairment Patients with impaired water handling who experience severe vomiting should be closely monitored including measurement of electrolytes (sodium, potassium, calcium, BUN and creatinine). Use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration and consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.4 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g. patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.5 Ischemic Colitis There have been reports of ischemic colitis in patients with use of GaviLyte - H and 20 mg bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP and GaviLyte - H and 10 mg bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP. If patients develop severe abdominal pain or rectal bleeding, patients should be evaluated as soon as possible. 5.6 Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of the GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP solution."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment- assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Patients with renal insufficiency- use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion - dilute and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of GoLYTELY. Use caution in patients with congestive heart failure when replacing fluids. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration including signs of orthostatic hypotension after taking GoLYTELY, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) and treat accordingly. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Fluid and electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected before treatment with GoLYTELY. In addition, use caution when prescribing GoLYTELY for patients who have conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing GoLYTELY for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing GoLYTELY for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing GoLYTELY for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing baseline and postcolonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and GoLYTELY may increase this risk. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering GoLYTELY. If a patient experiences severe bloating, distention or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of GoLYTELY. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex, unconscious, or semiconscious patients, and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of GoLYTELY, especially if it is administered via nasogastric tube. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion The contents of each jug must be diluted with water to a final volume of 4 liters (4 L) and ingestion of additional water is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undissolved powder may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment- assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Patients with renal insufficiency- use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion - dilute and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of NuLYTELY. Use caution in patients with congestive heart failure when replacing fluids. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration including signs of orthostatic hypotension after taking NuLYTELY, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) and treat accordingly. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Fluid and electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected before treatment with NuLYTELY. In addition, use caution when prescribing NuLYTELY for patients who have conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing NuLYTELY for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing NuLYTELY for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing NuLYTELY for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing baseline and postcolonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and NuLYTELY may increase this risk. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering NuLYTELY. If a patient experiences severe bloating, distention or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of NuLYTELY. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex, unconscious, or semiconscious patients, and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of NuLYTELY, especially if it is administered via nasogastric tube. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion The contents of each jug must be diluted with water to a final volume of 4 liters (4 L) and ingestion of additional water is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undissolved powder may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment- assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Patients with renal insufficiency- use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion - dilute and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution. Use caution in patients with congestive heart failure when replacing fluids. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration including signs of orthostatic hypotension after taking PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) and treat accordingly. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Fluid and electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected before treatment with PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution. In addition, use caution when prescribing PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution for patients who have conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution may increase this risk. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution. If a patient experiences severe bloating, distention or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex, unconscious, or semiconscious patients, and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution, especially if it is administered via nasogastric tube. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion The contents of each jug must be diluted with water to a final volume of 4 liters (4 L) and ingestion of additional water is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undissolved powder may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment- assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Patients with renal insufficiency- use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion - dilute and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Use caution in patients with congestive heart failure when replacing fluids. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration including signs of orthostatic hypotension after taking PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) and treat accordingly. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Fluid and electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected before treatment with PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. In addition, use caution when prescribing PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients who have conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution may increase this risk. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. If a patient experiences severe bloating, distention or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex, unconscious, or semiconscious patients, and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution, especially if it is administered via nasogastric tube. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion The contents of each jug must be diluted with water to a final volume of 4 liters (4 L) and ingestion of additional water is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undissolved powder may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment - assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Patients with renal insufficiency - use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion - dilute and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Use caution in patients with congestive heart failure when replacing fluids. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration including signs of orthostatic hypotension after taking polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) and treat accordingly. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Fluid and electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected before treatment with polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. In addition, use caution when prescribing polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients who have conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution may increase this risk. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. If a patient experiences severe bloating, distention or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate. If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex, unconscious, or semiconscious patients, and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution, especially if it administered via nasogastric tube. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion The contents of each jug must be diluted with water to a final volume of 4 liters (4 L) and ingestion of additional water is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undissolved powder may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment - assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Patients with renal insufficiency - use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion - dilute and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit. In addition, use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment. [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit can cause temporary elevations in uric acid. [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Uric acid fluctuations in patients with gout may precipitate an acute flare. The potential for uric acid elevation should be considered before administering SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit to patients with gout or other disorders of uric acid metabolism. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyteabnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit may increase these risks. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit solution. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion Each bottle must be diluted with water to a final volume of 16 ounces and ingestion of additional water as recommended is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment - encourage adequate hydration, assess concurrent medications, and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function - use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration \\342\\200\\224observe during administration (5.7) Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G-6-PD) - use with caution (5.8) Contains phenylalanine (5.9) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of MoviPrep. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking MoviPrep consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with MoviPrep. MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] or in patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. Consider performing pre-dose and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (sodium, potassium, calcium, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. [ See DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)] 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use with caution in patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing pre-dose and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 (Colonic) Mucosal Ulceration, Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and MoviPrep may increase the risk and is not recommended. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease. 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering MoviPrep. If a patient experiences severe bloating, abdominal distension, or abdominal pain, administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until symptoms abate. Use with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of MoviPrep. Use with caution in these patients. 5.8 Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) Deficiency Since MoviPrep contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid, MoviPrep should be used with caution in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency, especially G-6-PD deficiency patients with an active infection, with a history of hemolysis, or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions. 5.9 Contains Phenylalanine Phenylketonurics: Contains aspartame 233 mg per treatment which corresponds to 131 mg of phenylalanine per treatment (after hydrolysis of the aspartame molecule in-vivo to aspartic acid and phenylalanine).",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The electrolyte solution contained in compartment A must be mixed with the buffer solution of compartment B before use in order to obtain the reconstituted solution suitable for hemofiltration /hemodiafiltration. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. PrismaSol solution includes several formulations. Selection of a specific formulation depends on the patient's condition and treatment procedures. Administration of the solution should only be under the direction of a physician competent in intensive care treatment including CRRT. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Note that citrate, when used as an anticoagulant, contributes to the base load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Abnormalities in plasma phosphate concentration, especially hypophosphatemia, may also occur. Hypophosphatemia may require phosphate supplementation to maintain plasma concentrations in the physiologic range. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. When connecting solution bags, follow the instructions in this leaflet for correct use of the access ports. Incorrect use of the access port or other restrictions to fluid flow might lead to incorrect patient weight loss and may result in machine alarms. Continuing treatment without resolving the originating cause may result in patient injury or death. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. After heating, verify that the solution remains clear and contains no particulate matter. The solution in compartment A must be mixed with the solution of compartment B before use. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. Diabetes Mellitus or Glucose Intolerance Patients may require initiation of insulin therapy or modification of insulin dosage during treatment with PrismaSol solution. Appropriate monitoring of blood glucose should be performed and insulin dosage adjusted accordingly."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Verify that the solution bag has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. Do not reuse. Discard unused or partially used solution bags. Verify that the ISOPLATE SOLUTION has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. (5)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Studies ExperienceIn the MoviPrep trials, abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain were some of the most common adverse reactions to MoviPrep administration. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of MoviPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse reaction in the clinical studies. Tables 1 and 2 display the most common drug-related adverse reactions of MoviPrep and its comparator in the controlled MoviPrep trials. Table 1: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions* (>= 2%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution MoviPrep(R) (split dose) N=180 4L PEG + E  N=179 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Malaise 35 (19.4) 32 (17.9) Nausea 26 (14.4) 36 (20.1) Abdominal pain 24 (13.3) 27 (15.1) Vomiting 14 (7.8) 23 (12.8) Upper abdominal pain 10 (5.6) 11 (6.1) Dyspepsia 5 (2.8) 2 (1.1) * Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug.  4L PEG + E is 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution Table 2: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions* (>= 5%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution MoviPrep(R) (evening-only) (full dose) N=169 90 mL OSPS  N=171 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Abdominal distension 101 (59.8) 70 (40.9) Anal discomfort 87 (51.5) 89 (52.0) Thirst 80 (47.3) 112 (65.5) Nausea 80 (47.3) 80 (46.8) Abdominal paint 66 (39.1) 55 (32.2) Sleep disorder 59 (34.9) 49 (28.7) Rigors 57 (33.7) 51 (29.8) Hunger 51 (30.2) 121 (70.8) Malaise 45 (26.6) 90 (52.6) Vomiting 12 (7.1) 14 (8.2) Dizziness 11 (6.5) 31 (18.1) Headache 3 (1.8) 9 (5.3) Hypokalemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) Hyperphosphatemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) * Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. In addition to the recording of spontaneous adverse events, patients were also specifically asked about the occurrence of the following symptoms: shivering, anal irritations, abdominal bloating or fullness, sleep loss, nausea, vomiting, weakness, hunger sensation, abdominal cramps or pain, thirst sensation, and dizziness.  OSPS is Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and anaphylactic reaction have been reported with PEG-based products and may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse events following the administration of PEG-based products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events included upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, and acute pulmonary edema after aspirating the PEG-based preparation. 6.2 Postmarketing ExperienceIn addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of MoviPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to MoviPrep, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, urticaria, lip and facial swelling, dyspnea, chest tightness and throat tightness."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS ISOPLATE SOLUTION is added to platelets after the apheresis procedure is complete. It is not for direct intravenous infusion. It is expected to cause adverse events that are normally associated with platelet transfusion. ISOPLATE SOLUTION is expected to cause adverse events that are seen with platelet transfusion. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Terumo BCT, Inc. at 1-877-339-4228 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience No adverse reactions were reported in the subjects infused with < 10 mL of radiolabeled platelets stored for 5 days in 65% ISOPLATE SOLUTION, and rinsed prior to infusion [See Clinical Studies (14).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>=2%) are overall discomfort, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and headache (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Braintree Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-874-6756 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In randomized, multicenter, controlled clinical trials, the effectiveness of Suclear for colon cleansing was compared with two separate preparations containing two liters of polyethylene glycol plus electrolytes (Studies 1 and 2) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Suclear and the comparator preparation were administered entirely the day before the colonoscopy in Study 1, whereas they were administered as split doses in Study 2. In addition to collection of spontaneously reported adverse reactions, patients were instructed to complete a symptom scale questionnaire that targeted expected adverse reactions (overall discomfort, stomach cramping, stomach bloating, and nausea). Patients also were asked separately to report vomiting episodes. Table 1 presents the most common adverse reactions in Study 1 and Study 2. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Observed in At Least 2% of Patients Who Received the Day-Before Regimen or Split-Dose Regimen Adverse Reaction Study 1 (Day-Before Regimen) Study 2 (Split-Dose Regimen) Suclear (N=176) n (%) Comparator 1 (N=190) n (%) Suclear (N=186) n (%) Comparator 2\\342\\200\\241 (N=185) n (%) #Include spontaneously reported adverse reactions as well as those reported in a symptom scale questionnaire. *Abdominal pain also included reports of upper abdominal pain and abdominal tenderness.  Comparator 1: PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution; and two bisacodyl 5-mg delayed-release tablets. \\342\\200\\241 Comparator 2: PEG-3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid for oral solution. Overall discomfort# 122 (69) 108 (57) 116 (62) 121 (65) Abdominal distension# 92 (52) 85 (45) 96 (52) 112 (61) Abdominal pain#* 71 (40) 78 (41) 70 (38) 79 (43) Nausea# 74 (42) 75 (40) 86 (46) 72 (39) Vomiting# 19 (11) 15 (8) 26 (14) 13 (7) Headache 1 (1) 3 (2) 3 (2) 2 (1) Electrolyte Abnormalities Table 2 presents the incidence of new laboratory abnormalities in Study 1 and Study 2. Table 2: Shifts from Normal at Baseline to Outside the Normal Range on the Day of Colonoscopy (for n/N, n= number with the event and N= number with normal baseline value) Laboratory Parameter (direction of change) Study 1: Day-Before Regimen Study 2: Split-Dose Regimen Suclear % (n/N) Comparator 1 % (n/N) Suclear % (n/N) Comparator 2\\342\\200\\241 % (n/N)  Comparator 1: PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution; and two bisacodyl 5-mg delayed-release tablets. \\342\\200\\241 Comparator 2: PEG-3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid for oral solution. *Anion gap was calculated using the following formula: [Sodium (mEq/L)] - [Chloride (mEq/L)] + [Bicarbonate (mEq/L)]. Normal range was defined as 12\\302\\2614, and high was defined as a calculated value >16. **eGFR was calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. Anion gap (high)* 3% (5/155) 5% (8/170) 10% (17/166) 8% (12/155) Bicarbonate (low) 3% (4/156) 3% (5/167) 4% (6/170) 12% (20/161) Bilirubin, total (high) 8% (12/157) 10% (17/170) 11% (19/170) 4% (6/162) Calcium (high) 9% (12/139) 4% (5/139) 4% (6/141) 5% (7/144) Chloride (low) 1% (1/157) 0% (0/171) 1% (1/173) 0% (0/163) Creatinine (high) 2% (3/145) 3% (4/155) 1% (2/167) 1% (1/153) Creatine kinase (high) 7% (10/138) 4% (6/151) 7% (10/147) 5% (7/143) eGFR (low)** 25% (21/84) 14% (12/88) 9% (9/101) 11% (9/85) Glucose (high) 7% (10/146) 3% (4/156) 2% (3/160) 3% (5/150) Magnesium (low) 1% (1/158) 1% (1/169) 0% (0/169) 1% (1/163) Osmolality (high) 2% (3/139) 5% (8/153) 4% (6/151) 8% (12/145) Phosphate (low) 0% (0/155) 0% (0/168) 3% (5/171) 1% (2/160) Potassium (low) 4% (5/144) 3% (4/160) 4% (6/162) 4% (7/159) Sodium (low) 0% (0/157) 0% (0/169) 1% (1/169) 1% (1/163) Uric acid (high) 6% (8/143) 7% (11/160) 4% (7/163) 3% (4/154)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are: nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Strides Pharma Inc. at 1-877-244-9825 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurred in up to 50% of patients) to administration of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and usually subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-electrolyte solution products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and \\\\"butterfly-like\\\\" infiltrates on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>3%) are overall discomfort, abdominal fullness, abdominal cramping, nausea, and vomiting, (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Novel Laboratories, Inc. at 908-603-6000 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a clinical study of GaviLyte - H and (5 mg vs. 10 mg) bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP, overall discomfort, abdominal fullness, abdominal cramping, nausea, and vomiting, were the most common adverse reactions (>3%). The data in Table 1 reflects the 154 patients that received GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl tablet vs. the 154 patients that received GaviLyte - H and 10 mg bisacodyl tablets. The GaviLyte - H and 5 mg bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP population was 29-87 years of age, 49% male, 51% female, 13% African American, 83% White, 5% Hispanic requiring a colonoscopy. The demographics of the comparator group were similar. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Observed in at Least 3% of Randomized Patients GaviLyte - H and 5 mg Bisacodyl Delayed-release Tablet, USP(N=154)] GaviLyte - H and 10 mg Bisacodyl Delayed-release Tablet, USP(N=154) Overall Discomfort 57% 66% Abdominal fullness 40% 53% Abdominal cramping 38% 46% Nausea 34% 42% Vomiting 10% 7% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergic Reactions: Cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and anaphylactic reactions have been reported with PEG-based products. Gastrointestinal: There are isolated reports of serious post-marketing events following the administration of PEG-based products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse reactions include upper GI bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, and acute pulmonary edema after vomiting and aspirating the PEG-based solution. In addition, during administration of 4 liters of PEG-3350 colon cleansing preparation the following serious adverse reactions were seen: two deaths in end stage renal failure patients who developed diarrhea, vomiting and dysnatremia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Ischemic colitis has been reported with use of of GaviLyte - H and 20 mg and 10 mg bisacodyl delayed-release tablets, USP for colon preparation prior to colonoscopy. However, a causal relationship between these ischemic colitis cases and the use of GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablets, USP has not been established. Neurologic: There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with use of large volume (4 liter) PEG-based colon preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. Cases of dizziness and syncope have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are: overall discomfort, abdominal fullness, nausea, abdominal cramping, and vomiting (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Braintree Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-874-6756 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a multicenter, controlled clinical trial comparing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit with a bowel prep containing polyethylene glycol and electrolytes (PEG + E) that were administered in a split-dose (2-day) regimen, the most common adverse reactions after administration of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit were overall discomfort, abdominal distention, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and headache; see Table 1, below. Less common Adverse Reactions occurring were AV Block (1 case) and CK increase. In this study, patients receiving SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit were limited to a light breakfast followed by clear liquids; patients receiving the PEG + E bowel prep were allowed to have a normal breakfast and a light lunch, followed by clear liquids. Table 1: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Observed in at Least 2% of Patients on the Split-Dose (2-Day) Regimen Split-Dose (2-Day) Regimen Symptom SUPREP N=190 PEG + E product N=189 Overall Discomfort 54% 67% Abdominal Distension 40% 52% Abdominal Pain 36% 43% Nausea 36% 33% Vomiting 8% 4% Headache 1.1% 0.5% Table 2 shows the percentages of patients who developed new abnormalities of important electrolytes and uric acid after completing the bowel preparation with either SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit or PEG+E administered as a split-dose (2-day) regimen. Table 2: Patients with Normal Baseline Serum Chemistry with A Shift to an Abnormal Value While on the Split-Dose (2-Day) Regimen *Percent (n/N) of patients where N=number of patients with normal baseline who had abnormal values at the timepoint(s) of interest. Patients with normal bicarbonate at baseline who developed low bicarbonate (<= 21 mEq/L) and high anion gap (>= 13 mEq/L) on Day of Colonoscopy or Day 30. Day of Colonoscopy n (%)* Day 30 n (%)* Anion gap (high)  SUPREP 14 (8.9) 3 (1.9) PEG + Electrolytes 12 (7.6) 2 (1.4) Bicarbonate (low) SUPREP 20 (12.7) 7 (4.4) PEG + Electrolytes 24 (15.2) 4 (2.7) Bilirubin, total (high) SUPREP 14 (8.5) 0 (0) PEG + Electrolytes 20 (11.7) 3 (1.9) BUN (high) SUPREP 2 (1.6) 14 (11.2) PEG + Electrolytes 4 (2.9) 19 (14.5) Calcium (high) SUPREP 16 (10.4) 8 (5.2) PEG + Electrolytes 6 (3.7) 6 (3.9) Chloride (high) SUPREP 4 (2.4) 6 (3.7) PEG + Electrolytes 20 (12.2) 6 (3.8) Creatinine (high) SUPREP 3 (1.9) 5 (3.2) PEG + Electrolytes 2 (1.2) 8 (5.2) Osmolality (high) SUPREP 8 (5.8) NA PEG + Electrolytes 19 (12.9) NA Osmolality (low) SUPREP 3 (2.2) NA PEG + Electrolytes 2 (1.4) NA Potassium (high) SUPREP 3 (1.8) 6 (3.7) PEG + Electrolytes 5 (2.9) 8 (4.9) Sodium (low) SUPREP 5 (3.1) 1 (0.6) PEG + Electrolytes 4 (2.3) 2 (1.2) Uric acid (high) SUPREP 27 (23.5) 13 (11.5) PEG + Electrolytes 12 (9.5) 20 (16.7) There were also 408 patients who participated in a study in which either SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit or PEG+E were administered in an evening-only (1-day) regimen. Higher rates of overall discomfort, abdominal distention, and nausea were observed with the evening-only (1-day) regimen compared to the split-dose (2-day) regimen for both preparations. Patients treated with SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit had increased rates of vomiting with the evening-only (1-day) regimen. An evening-only (1-day) dosing regimen was associated with higher rates of abnormal values for some electrolytes when compared to the split-dose (2-day) regimen for both preparations. For SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit, the evening-only (1-day) regimen was associated with higher rates of total bilirubin (high), BUN (high), creatinine (high), osmolality (high), potassium (high) and uric acid (high) than the SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit split-dose (2-day) regimen. Administration of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit in an evening-only (1-day) dosing regimen is not recommended."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions for split dosing (incidence \\302\\263 5%) are malaise, nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, and upper abdominal pain (6). The most common adverse reactions for evening only dosing (incidence \\302\\263 5%) are abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, abdominal pain, sleep disorder, rigors, hunger, malaise, vomiting, and dizziness (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-508-0024 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In the MoviPrep trials, abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain were some of the most common adverse reactions to MoviPrep administration. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of MoviPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse reaction in the clinical studies. Tables 1 and 2 display the most common drug-related adverse reactions of MoviPrep and its comparator in the controlled MoviPrep trials. Table 1: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions1 (>= 2%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 4 Liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution MoviPrep(R) (split dose) N=180 4L PEG + E2 N=179 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Malaise 35 (19.4) 32 (17.9) Nausea 26 (14.4) 36 (20.1) Abdominal pain 24 (13.3) 27 (15.1) Vomiting 14 (7.8) 23 (12.8) Upper abdominal pain 10 (5.6) 11 (6.1) Dyspepsia 5 (2.8) 2 (1.1) 1 Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. 2 4L PEG + E is 4 liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution Table 2: The Most Common Drug-Related Adverse Reactions1 (>= 5%) in the Study of MoviPrep vs. 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution MoviPrep(R) (evening-only) (full dose) N=169 90 mL OSPS2 N=171 n (% = n/N) n (% = n/N) Abdominal distension 101 (59.8) 70 (40.9) Anal discomfort 87 (51.5) 89 (52.0) Thirst 80 (47.3) 112 (65.5) Nausea 80 (47.3) 80 (46.8) Abdominal pain 66 (39.1) 55 (32.2) Sleep disorder 59 (34.9) 49 (28.7) Rigors 57 (33.7) 51 (29.8) Hunger 51 (30.2) 121 (70.8) Malaise 45 (26.6) 90 (52.6) Vomiting 12 (7.1) 14 (8.2) Dizziness 11 (6.5) 31 (18.1) Headache 3 (1.8) 9 (5.3) Hypokalemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) Hyperphosphatemia 0 (0) 10 (5.8) 1 Drug-related adverse reactions were adverse events that were possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study drug. In addition to the recording of spontaneous adverse events, patients were also specifically asked about the occurrence of the following symptoms: shivering, anal irritations, abdominal bloating or fullness, sleep loss, nausea, vomiting, weakness, hunger sensation, abdominal cramps or pain, thirst sensation, and dizziness. 2 OSPS is Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and anaphylactic reaction have been reported with PEG-based products and may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse events following the administration of PEG-based products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events included upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, and acute pulmonary edema after aspirating PEG-based preparation. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of MoviPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to MoviPrep, or a combination of these factors. Cardiovascular: Tachycardia, palpitations, hypertension, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, peripheral edema. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis (some of which were severe, including shock), rash, urticaria, pruritus, lip, tongue and facial swelling, dyspnea, chest tightness and throat tightness. Fever, chills and dehydration. Nervous system: Syncope, tremor, seizure. Renal: Renal impairment and/or failure.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited at 1-866 210 9797 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: Study 1 * HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2  Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% * Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% * Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Citron Pharma LLC. at 1-855-5-CITRON (1-855-524-8766) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: *Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-800\\302\\255313-4623 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous s ystem disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135).The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1 Study 1Demographics= (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Macleods Pharma USA, Inc. at 1-888-943-3210 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% * Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with HYZAAR and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of HYZAAR. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Torrent Pharma Inc at 1-269-544-2299 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and/or the individual components: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Psychiatric disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Nervous system disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Eye disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Cardiac disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Vascular disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Gastrointestinal disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Hepato-biliary disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Renal and urinary disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. General disorders and administration site conditions: Liver function abnormalities. Investigations: Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) * Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female)  Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2  Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Digestive: Thrombocytopenia. Hematologic: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\226nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Hypersensitivity: rhabdomyolysis Musculoskeletal: Erythroderma Skin:"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Torrent Pharma Inc at 1-269-544-2299 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and/or the individual components: Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Psychiatric disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Eye disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Cardiac disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Vascular disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Gastrointestinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Hepato-biliary disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Renal and urinary disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. Investigations: Liver function abnormalities. Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: * Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2  Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\226nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Musculoskeletal: rhabdomyolysis Skin: Erythroderma"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are dizziness, upper respiratory infection, cough, and back pain. ( ) 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. at 1-877-993-8779 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. Most adverse reactions have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse events was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, adverse reactions occurring in greater than 2% of subjects treated with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than placebo were: back pain (2.1% vs. 0.6%), dizziness (5.7% vs. 2.9%), and upper respiratory infection (6.1% vs. 4.6%). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and/or the individual components: Anemia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis. Blood and the lymphatic system disorders: Anorexia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance including hyponatremia and hypokalemia. Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Insomnia, restlessness. Psychiatric disorders: Dysgeusia, headache, migraine, paraesthesias. Nervous system disorders: Xanthopsia, transient blurred vision. Eye disorders: Palpitation, tachycardia. Cardiac disorders: Dose-related orthostatic effects, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis). Vascular disorders: Nasal congestion, pharyngitis, sinus disorder, respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema). Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, pancreatitis, sialoadenitis. Gastrointestinal disorders: Jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice). Hepato-biliary disorders: Rash, pruritus, purpura, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, photosensitivity, cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Muscle cramps, muscle spasm, myalgia, arthralgia. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Glycosuria, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis, renal failure. Renal and urinary disorders: Erectile dysfunction/impotence. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Chest pain, edema/swelling, malaise, fever, weakness. General disorders and administration site conditions: Liver function abnormalities. Investigations: Cough Persistent dry cough has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Table 1 *Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* Cough HCTZ 25% Losartan 17% Lisinopril 69% Study 2 Cough Placebo 35% Losartan 29% Lisinopril 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Digestive: Thrombocytopenia. Hematologic: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\226nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Hypersensitivity: rhabdomyolysis Musculoskeletal: Erythroderma Skin:"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=2% and greater than placebo) are: dizziness, upper respiratory infection, nasal congestion, and back pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Macleods Pharma USA, Inc. at 1-888-943-3210 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Hypertension Losartan potassium tablets has been evaluated for safety in more than 3300 adult patients treated for essential hypertension and 4058 patients/subjects overall. Over 1200 patients were treated for over 6 months and more than 800 for over one year. Treatment with losartan potassium tablets was well-tolerated with an overall incidence of adverse events similar to that of placebo. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy for adverse events occurred in 2.3% of patients treated with losartan potassium tablets and 3.7% of patients given placebo. In 4 clinical trials involving over 1000 patients on various doses (10-150 mg) of losartan potassium and over 300 patients given placebo, the adverse events that occurred in >=2% of patients treated with losartan potassium tablets and more commonly than placebo were: dizziness (3% vs. 2%), upper respiratory infection (8% vs. 7%), nasal congestion (2% vs. 1%), and back pain (2% vs. 1%). The following less common adverse reactions have been reported: Blood and lymphatic system disorders: Anemia. Psychiatric disorders: Depression. Nervous system disorders: Somnolence, headache, sleep disorders, paresthesia, migraine. Ear and labyrinth disorders: Vertigo, tinnitus. Cardiac disorders: Palpitations, syncope, atrial fibrillation, CVA. Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: Dyspnea Gastrointestinal disorders: Abdominal pain, constipation, nausea, vomiting. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Urticaria, pruritus, rash, photosensitivity. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: Myalgia, arthralgia. Reproductive system and breast disorders: Impotence. General disorders and administration site conditions: Edema. Cough Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown in Table 1 below. Tabel 1: Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% * Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In the Losartan Intervention for Endpoint (LIFE) study, adverse reactions with losartan potassium tablets were similar to those reported previously for patients with hypertension. Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients In the Reduction of Endpoints in NIDDM with the Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonist Losartan (RENAAL) study involving 1513 patients treated with losartan potassium tablets or placebo, the overall incidences of reported adverse events were similar for the two groups. Discontinuations of losartan potassium tablets because of side effects were similar to placebo (19% for losartan potassium tablets, 24% for placebo). The adverse events, regardless of drug relationship, reported with an incidence of >=4% of patients treated with losartan potassium tablets and occurring with >=2% difference in the losartan group vs. placebo on a background of conventional antihypertensive therapy, were asthenia/fatigue, chest pain, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, diarrhea, anemia, hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, back pain, muscular weakness, and urinary tract infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience with losartan potassium tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: Digestive: Hepatitis. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Malaise. Hematologic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported.Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyponatremia. Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis. Nervous system disorders: Dysgeusia. Skin: Erythroderma."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact contact BioComp Pharma at 1-866-762-2365 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during Potassium Citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mission Pharmacal Company at 1-800-298-1087 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during Urocit(R)-K therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc. at 1-855-899-9180 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS -Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. at 1-877-993-8779 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks or by reducing the dosage (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. at 1-877-993-8779 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snacks, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in their feces."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of GoLYTELY. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurred in up to 50% of patients) to administration of GoLYTELY. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and usually subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-electrolyte solution products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and "butterfly-like" infiltrates on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG. Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are: nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Braintree Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-874-6756 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of NuLYTELY. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurred in up to 50% of patients) to administration of NuLYTELY. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and usually subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-electrolyte solution products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and "butterfly-like" infiltrates on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG. Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are: nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Braintree Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-874-6756 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurred in up to 50% of patients) to administration of PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and usually subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-electrolyte solution products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and "butterfly-like" infiltrates on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG. Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are: nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Affordable Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-800-514-5617 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurred in up to 50% of patients) to administration of PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and usually subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-electrolyte solution products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and "butterfly-like" infiltrates on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG. Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are: nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Affordable Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-800-514-5617 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information. Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Fat Overload Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Refeeding Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Diabetes/Hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Thrombophlebitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hepatobiliary disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.15 ) ] Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Hypertriglyceridemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Aluminum toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] The most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, pyrexia, and increased blood triglycerides. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, Vigilance & Medical Affairs at 1-800-551-7176 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The clinical data described for PERIKABIVEN(R) reflects exposure in 93 patients exposed for 5 to 7 days in 4 active-controlled trials. The pooled population exposed to PERIKABIVEN(R) was 18 to 87 years old, 48% female, 73% Caucasian. The enrolled patients had varied underlying conditions such as gastrointestinal disorders (55%), vascular disorders (30%), metabolism and nutrition disorders (28%), respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders (22%), and psychiatric disorders (20%). Most patients received peripheral intravenous infusion doses of >=80% of their target mean daily exposure. Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN(R) are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions in >2% of Patients Treated with PERIKABIVEN(R) Adverse reaction PERIKABIVEN(R) N=93 (%) Hyperglycemia* 5 (5) Hypokalemia 4 (4) Pyrexia 4 (4) Blood triglycerides increased 3 (3) Phlebitis 2 (2) Nausea 2 (2) Pruritus 2 (2) Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 2 (2) Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 2 (2) Alanine aminotransferase increased 2 (2) Blood glucose increased* 2 (2) C-reactive protein increased 2 (2) Blood urea increased 2 (2) Hypoalbuminemia 2 (2) * Terms as reported in clinical studies Less common adverse reactions in <=1% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN were hyperkalemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypernatremia, tachycardia, hypertension, thrombophlebitis, vomiting, jaundice, rash and increased blood bilirubin. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PERIKABIVEN(R) in countries where it is registered. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal distension, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: chest tightness Hepatobiliary disorders: cholestasis Immune system disorders: allergic reaction, anaphylaxis Infections and infestations: infection Vascular disorders: flushed face",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. Most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact 727-530-1633 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. Most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pharm-Olam at 1-866-511-6754 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. Most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pharm-Olam at 1-866-511-6754 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS \\302\\267 Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) \\302\\267 Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) \\302\\267 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) \\302\\267 Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) \\302\\267 Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) \\302\\267 Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving HYZAAR and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when HYZAAR and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on HYZAAR and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with HYZAAR in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with HYZAAR in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents increasing serum potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy),or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan)may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Losartan potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. ( ) 7.1 Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( ) 7.2 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. ( ) 7.3 Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. ( ) 7.4 Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( ) 7.5 Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( ) 7.5 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology ( )]: 12.3 (oral agents and insulin) Antidiabetic drugs Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) -Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) -Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) -Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) -Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) -Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) -Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) -Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) -Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) -Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) -Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\200\\224 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Antidiabetic drugs \\342\\200\\224 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS - Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) - Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) - NSAIDs: Increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) - Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. In most patients no benefit has been associated with using two RAS inhibitors concomitantly. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of dialyzable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. 7.1 Citrate When used as an anticoagulant, citrate contributes to the overall buffer load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. Select the PRISMASOL/PHOXILLUM formulation(s) accordingly."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of filterable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. In patients with cardiovascular disease, especially those using cardiac glycoside medications, plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives, including warfarin: Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted; monitor laboratory parameters. (7.1) 7.1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in PERIKABIVEN(R) has vitamin K1. Vitamin K1 can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin or coumarin derivatives, which work by blocking recycling of vitamin K1. Monitoring for anticoagulant activity is recommended in patients who are on both PERIKABIVEN(R) and coumarin or coumarin derivatives.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2). Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives may increase the risk of ischemic colitis (7.3). 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Certain medical conditions and concomitant medications may increase the risk for developing fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities when taking Suclear. This includes patients receiving drugs which may be associated with hypokalemia (such as diuretics or corticosteroids, or drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk, such as cardiac glycosides) or hyponatremia. Use caution when Suclear is used in patients on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) or drugs known to induce Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH), such as tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, antipsychotic drugs and carbamazepine, as these drugs may increase the risk of water retention and/or electrolyte imbalance. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each Suclear dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and Suclear may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking Suclear."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral medication administered within 1 hour of the start of administration of MoviPrep may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral medications may not be absorbed when administered while taking MoviPrep (7). 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing MoviPrep for patients with conditions, or who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate. [See WARNINGS (5)] 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within 1 hour of the start of administration of MoviPrep may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium sparing diuretics: Avoid concomitant use (7.1) Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.2) Angiotensin receptor blockers: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.3) 7.1 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics Use with potassium-sparing diuretic can produce severe hyperkalemia. Avoid concomitant use. 7.2 Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Use with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors produces potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ACE inhibitors only with close monitoring. 7.3 Angiotensin Receptor Blockers Use with angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) produces potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ARBs only with close monitoring."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs (e.g., diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) increase risk due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of drinking GaviLyte - H might not be absorbed fully. (7.2) Do not take the bisacodyl tablet within one hour of taking antacid (7.3) 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks of Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing GaviLyte - H and bisacodyl delayed-release tablet, USP for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of GaviLyte - H solution may be flushed from the GI tract and the medication may not be absorbed completely. 7.3 Interaction with Antacids Do not take the bisacodyl delayed-release tablet within one hour of taking an antacid."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs that May Lead to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing GoLYTELY for patients who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of GoLYTELY may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and GoLYTELY may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking GoLYTELY."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs that May Lead to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing NuLYTELY for patients who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of NuLYTELY may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and NuLYTELY may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking NuLYTELY."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs that May Lead to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution for patients who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking PEG-3350 and Electrolytes for Oral Solution."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs that May Lead to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs that May Lead to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution for patients who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose might not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings (5)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the medication may not be absorbed properly."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: -Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) -Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of potassium citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of potassium citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with Potassium Citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium Citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of Potassium Citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium Citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of Potassium Citrate Extended-release Tablets and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of Urocit(R)-K and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, vomiting, and nausea are the most common adverse reactions to oral potassium supplements. These adverse reactions occur most frequently when the preparation is not taken with food, is not properly diluted, or not completely dissolved. Hyperkalemia occurs infrequently in patients with normal renal function who receive oral potassium supplements. The following are symptoms of hyperkalemia: mental confusion, unexplained anxiety, cardiac arrhythmias, numbness or tingling in lips, feet, or hands, difficult breathing or shortness of breath, weakness or heaviness of legs, and unusual fatigue or weakness. (See Contraindications, Warning, and Overdosage)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, vomiting, and nausea are the most common adverse reactions tooral potassium supplements. These adverse reactions occur most frequently when the preparation is not taken with food, is not properly diluted, or not completely dissolved. Hyperkalemia occurs infrequently in patients with normal renal function who receive oral potassium supplements. The following are symptoms of hyperkalemia: mental confusion, unexplained anxiety, cardiac arrhythmias, numbness or tingling in lips, feet, or hands, difficult breathing or shortness of breath, weakness or heaviness of legs, and unusual fatigue or weakness. (See Contraindications, Warnings, and Overdosage)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, vomiting, and nausea are the most common adverse reactions tooral potassium supplements. These adverse reactions occur most frequently when the preparation is not taken with food, is not properly diluted, or not completely dissolved. Hyperkalemia occurs infrequently in patients with normal renal function who receive oral potassium supplements. The following are symptoms of hyperkalemia: mental confusion, unexplained anxiety, cardiac arrhythmias, numbness or tingling in lips, feet, or hands, difficult breathing or shortness of breath, weakness or heaviness of legs, and unusual fatigue or weakness. (See Contraindications, Warnings, and Overdosage)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Acunol(TM) contains low doses of active ingredients. Therefore there are minimal known side effects. (see PRECAUTIONS for hypersensitivity information)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of potassium intoxication. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may occur with any given intrathecal injection due to the chemotherapy or the technique of intrathecal administration. (See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine.) Preservative-free methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be used to minimize adverse reactions due to preservatives. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the administration, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and, if possible, save the remainder of the unused solution(s) for examination."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Call your medical practitioner about side effects. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea, and headaches have been reported with pyridoxine."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic reactions or anaphylactoid symptoms such as localized or generalized urticaria and pruritus; periorbital, facial, and/or laryngeal edema; coughing, sneezing, and/or difficulty with breathing have been reported during administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection USP. The reporting frequency of these signs and symptoms is higher in women during pregnancy. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurring in up to 50% of patients) to administration of Colyte. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and usually subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and rarely anaphylaxis, angioedema, tongue edema, and face edema have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. To report suspected adverse events contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at toll free 1-888-317-0001 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurring in up to 50% of patients) to administration of Colyte. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and usually subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and rarely anaphylaxis, angioedema, tongue edema, and face edema have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. To report suspected adverse events contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at toll free 1-888-317-0001 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one or two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see Warnings ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see Warnings ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1-2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anaemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Penicillin G Potassium, USP (1 million units contains 1.7 mEq of potassium ion) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact (insert name of manufacturer) at (insert manufacturer's phone number) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one or two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see Warnings ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see Warnings ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1-2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anaemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Penicillin G Potassium, USP (1 million units contains 1.7 mEq of potassium ion) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body As A Whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one to two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity Reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see WARNINGS). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal System Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic System Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis, can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Penicillin G potassium (1 million units contains 0.3 mEq of sodium and 1.68 mEq of potassium) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous System Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital System Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local Reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact WG Critical Care, LLC at 1-866-562-4708 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole: The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections ( i.e. , Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one to two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventilation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochetes of heat-stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions: The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see WARNINGS ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e. , fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system: Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system: Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic: Penicillin G Potassium, USP (1 million units contains 1.68 mEq of potassium ion) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system: Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system: Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions: Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur, and pain at the injection site has been reported with intravenous administration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1080 or www.FDA.gov ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a whole The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a systemic reaction, that may occur after the initiation of penicillin therapy in patients with syphilis or other spirochetal infections (i.e., Lyme disease and Relapsing fever). The reaction begins one to two hours after initiation of therapy and disappears within 12 to 24 hours. It is characterized by fever, chills, myalgias, headache, exacerbation of cutaneous lesions, tachycardia, hyperventiliation, vasodilation with flushing and mild hypotension. The pathogenesis of the Herxheimer reaction may be due to the release from the spirochaete of host stable pyrogen. Hypersensitivity reactions The reported incidence of allergic reactions to all penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent in different studies (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of previous treatment with a penicillin, but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is postulated that prior exposure to penicillin may have occurred via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically - Immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angloneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death (see WARNINGS ). Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare and usually occur after parenteral therapy, but a few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported following oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, fever and, occasionally, laryngeal edema. Delayed reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations include serum sickness-like symptoms, i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain and various skin rashes, ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis. Contact dermatitis has been observed in individuals who prepare penicillin solutions. Gastrointestinal system Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the onset occurring during or after penicillin G treatment. Nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral therapy. Hematologic system Reactions include neutropenia, which resolves after penicillin therapy is discontinued; Coombspositive hemolytic anemia, an uncommon reaction, occurs in patients treated with intravenous penicillin G in doses greater than 10 million units/day and who have previously received large doses of the drug; and with large doses of penicillin, a bleeding diathesis, can occur secondary to platelet dysfunction. Metabolic Buffered Penicillin G Potassium for Injection, USP (1 million units contains 0.3 mEq of sodium and 1.68 mEq of potassium) may cause serious and even fatal electrolyte disturbances, i.e., hyperkalemia, when given intravenously in large doses. Nervous system Neurotoxic reactions including hyperreflexia, myoclonic twitches, seizures and coma have been reported following the administration of massive intravenous doses, and are more likely in patients with impaired renal function. Urogenital system Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with large intravenous doses of penicillin G. Manifestations of this reaction may include fever, rash, eosinophilia, proteinuria, eosinophiluria, hematuria and a rise in serum urea nitrogen. Discontinuation of penicillin G results in resolution in the majority of patients. Local reactions Phlebitis and thrombophlebitis may occur with intravenous administration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ECZEMOL(R) contains low doses of active ingredients. Therefore there are minimal known side effects. (see PRECAUTIONS for hypersensitivity information)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS - Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and chills - Hyponatremia (applies to solutions containing less than 0.9% Sodium Chloride) Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and chills. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Intraoperative and perioperative potential hazards of open heart surgery include myocardial infarction, electrocardiographic abnormalities, and arrhythmias, including ventricular fibrillation. Spontaneous recovery after cardioplegic cardiac arrest may be delayed or absent when circulation is restored. Defibrillation by electric shock may be required to restore normal cardiac function."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any other trauma may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Post-operative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any trauma to the corneal endothelium may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Postoperative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions of the infusion site consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis have been reported in the literature with peripheral amino acid infusions. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported in the literature during the peripheral administration of amino acids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double\\302\\255blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (N=858) Placebo (N=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal Pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/Swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back Pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper Respiratory Infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis was reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary infrequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, N=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (N=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 Demographics=(89% caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Demographics=(90% caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experiences. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects: Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular : angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 * Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >= 1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n = 858) Placebo (n = 173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness ; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >= 110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (> 0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension : In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension : In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Severe Hypertension.) The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >= 1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n = 858) Placebo (n = 173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness ; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >= 110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (> 0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Thrombocytopenia. Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3,889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >= 1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n = 858) Placebo (n = 173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >= 110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through 6 weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were two (0.6%) and zero (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were three (0.8%) and two (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (> 0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects: Severe Hypertension). Post-marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: anemia Metabolic: gout Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypoesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female). HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female). Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with HYZAAR as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of HYZAAR. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone. No patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with HYZAAR alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with HYZAAR as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of HYZAAR. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone. No patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with HYZAAR alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium-Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below.  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests : Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes :See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium- Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope. Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block. Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting. General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise. Hematologic: anemia. Metabolic: gout. Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness. Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo. Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder. Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria. Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus. Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension .) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets.. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular : angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 *Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 *Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >= 1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n = 858) Placebo (n = 173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness ; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female). HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) . Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >= 110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (> 0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and nutrition Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, blood urea nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver function tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >= 1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n = 858) Placebo (n = 173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >= 110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (> 0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and nutrition Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, blood urea nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver function tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; malaise; anemia; gout; arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Body as a Whole : Cardiovascular : Digestive: General disorders and administration site conditions: Hematologic: Metabolic: Musculoskeletal: Nervous System/Psychiatric: Respiratory: Skin: Special Senses: Urogenital: Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: weakness; pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; muscle spasm; restlessness; renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Body as a Whole : Digestive: Hematologic: Hypersensitivity: Metabolic: Musculoskeletal: Nervous System/Psychiatric: Renal: Skin: Special Senses: Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 * Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female) Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female)  Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2  Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, , .) Severe Hypertension: Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects Severe Hypertension Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: : Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Digestive : Thrombocytopenia. Hemic : Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Hypersensitivity : Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Metabolic and Nutrition : Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Musculoskeletal : Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Respiratory : Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Skin Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. , : Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Creatinine Blood Urea Nitrogen : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Liver Function : See . Serum Electrolytes PRECAUTIONS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular : angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% *Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular : angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole : weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% *Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole:chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive:anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: anemia Metabolic:gout Musculoskeletal:arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric:anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory:dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin:alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: *Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Study 1 * HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2  Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole:chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive:anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: anemia Metabolic:gout Musculoskeletal:arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric:anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory:dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin:alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: *Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female). HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female). Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with HYZAAR as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of HYZAAR. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone. No patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with HYZAAR alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1 Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: anemia Metabolic: gout Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 Study 1* Cough HCTZ 25% Losartan 17% Lisinopril 69% Study 2 Cough Placebo 35% Losartan 29% Lisinopril 62% *Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium an Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: anemia Metabolic: gout Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticarial Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3,889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium-Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2:  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests : Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes :See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium-Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2:  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes:See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 858 ) Placebo ( n = 173 ) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1 % or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: Angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: Anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: Anemia; Metabolic: Gout; Musculoskeletal: Arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: Dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: Alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: Blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: Impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Weakness; Digestive: Pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: Aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: Purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: Muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Restlessness; Renal: Renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: Erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: Transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Post-Marketing Experience: The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity : Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 858 ) Placebo ( n = 173 ) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1 % or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: Angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: Anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: Anemia; Metabolic: Gout; Musculoskeletal: Arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: Dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: Alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: Blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: Impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Weakness; Digestive: Pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: Aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: Purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: Muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Restlessness; Renal: Renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: Erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: Transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Postmarketing Experience: The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity : Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 858 ) Placebo ( n = 173 ) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1 % or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: Angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: Anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: Anemia; Metabolic: Gout; Musculoskeletal: Arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: Dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: Alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: Blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: Impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Weakness; Digestive: Pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: Aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: Purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: Muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Restlessness; Renal: Renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: Erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: Transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). PostMarketing Experience: The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity : Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1 Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 858 ) Placebo ( n = 173 ) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1 % or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: Angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: Anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: Anemia; Metabolic: Gout; Musculoskeletal: Arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: Dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: Alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: Blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: Impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide: Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Weakness; Digestive: Pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: Aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: Purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: Muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: Restlessness; Renal: Renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: Erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: Transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% *Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female) Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Postmarketing Experience: The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity : Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings: In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table1: Losartan Potassium - Hydrochlorothiazide ( n = 858 ) Placebo ( n = 173 ) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/Swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory Infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: Chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: Angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive: Anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General Disorders and administration site conditions: Malaise Hematologic: Anemia Metabolic: Gout Musculoskeletal: Arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric: Anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory: Dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin: Alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Special Senses: Blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: Impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female). HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female). Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia . Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal Pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/Swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back Pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper Respiratory Infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis was reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary infrequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2: Study 1 Demographics=(89% caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Demographics=(90% caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experiences. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects: Severe Hypertension.) Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >= 1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n = 858) Placebo (n = 173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: anemia Metabolic: gout Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >= 110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (> 0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and nutrition Hyperkalemia and hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, blood urea nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver function tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >= 1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n = 858) Placebo (n = 173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n = 97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n = 135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% * Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >= 110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (> 0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension). Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and nutrition Hyperkalemia and hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, blood urea nitrogen Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and hematocrit Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver function tests Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum electrolytes See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets have been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium- Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise Hematologic: anemia Metabolic: gout Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium- Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous / Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1 HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril \\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224\\342\\200\\224 Cough 35% 29% 62%  Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension ). Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium- Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% Caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% Caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with HYZAAR as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with HYZAAR and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of HYZAAR. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone. No patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking HYZAAR due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with HYZAAR alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with HYZAAR alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium-hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan-hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Losartan Potassium-Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain Edema/swelling 1.2 1.3 0.6 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough Sinusitis Upper respiratory infection 2.6 1.2 6.1 2.3 0.6 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan-hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Study 1Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female) HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in post-marketing experience. Severe Hypertension In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in post-marketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Sch\\303\\266nlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurring in up to 50% of patients) to administration of GaviLyte -N. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reaction following the administration of PEG-ELS products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and \\\\"butterfly-like" infiltrate on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurring in up to 50% of patients) to administration of NuLYTELY. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reaction following the administration of PEG-ELS products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and "butterfly-like" infiltrate on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurring in up to 50% of patients) to administration of PEG-3350, SODIUM CHLORIDE, POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM BICARBONATE. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reaction following the administration of PEG-ELS products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and \\\\"butterfly-like" infiltrate on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurring in up to 50% of patients) to administration of TRILYTE with flavor packs. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-ELS products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and \\\\"butterfly-like\\\\" infiltrate on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions (occurring in up to 50% of patients) to administration of TRILYTE with flavor packs. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient and subside rapidly. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and (rarely) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions. Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-ELS products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and \\\\"butterfly-like\\\\" infiltrate on chest X-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Wallace Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-888-444-1527 or the FDA at 1-800 FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Nausea, abdominal fullness and bloating are the most frequent adverse reactions, occurring in up to 50% of patients. Abdominal cramps, vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently. These adverse reactions are transient. Isolated cases of urticaria, rhinorrhea, dermatitis, and rarely anaphylaxis, angioedema, tongue edema, and face edema have been reported which may represent allergic reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve, and cardiac arrest. (SeeWARNINGSandPRECAUTIONS.)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of p waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve, and cardiac arrest. SeeWARNINGS. USE IN PREGNANCY Safety for use in pregnancy has not been established. Use of potassium acetate in women of childbearing potential requires that anticipated benefits be weighed against possible hazards."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS No adverse events have been reported with a causal relationship Thonsilla compositum(R) Oral Vials."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see , , and ). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see and ). CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS OVERDOSAGE CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see , , and ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see and ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS OVERDOSAGE CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see , and ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see and ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS OVERDOSAGE CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Micro-K(R) Extencaps(R) (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCI dosage forms, and may occur with Micro-K(R) Extencaps(R). The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, 600 mg (8 mEq K) and 750 mg (10 mEq K) (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, 600 mg (8 mEq K) and 750 mg (10 mEq K). The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with potassium chloride extended-release capsules. (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with potassium chloride extended-release capsules. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium chloride extended-release capsules (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium chloride extended-release capsules. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 100 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. at 1-800-828-9393 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, USP, 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, USP, 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended- release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCI dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCI dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended- release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCI dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or ht tp://www.fda.gov/ f or voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended- release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCI dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or ht tp://www.fda.gov/ f or voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended- release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCI dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993; email drugsafety@avkare.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP 8 mEq (600 mg) and 10 mEq (750 mg). The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Vensun Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-385-1540 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/medwatch for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extendedrelease Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, USP (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, USP. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, USP (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCl dosage forms, and may occur with potassium chloride extended-release capsules, USP. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations."$$
"Adverse Reactions One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see Contraindications, Warnings and Overdosage). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the dose. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (See CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, AND OVERDOSAGE). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"Adverse Reactions One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see Contraindications, Warnings and Overdosage ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the dose."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONSand WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (seeCONTRAINDICATIONS,WARNINGS, andOVERDOSAGE). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (seeCONTRAINDICATIONSandWARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (seeCONTRAINDICATIONS,WARNINGSandOVERDOSAGE). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (seeCONTRAINDICATIONSandWARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to the potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation to the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE ). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to the potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation to the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia. (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). To report Adverse Drug Events call (866) 562-4597 or (800) FDA-1088. The most common adverse reactions to the potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation to the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (seeCONTRAINDICATIONS,WARNINGSandOVERDOSAGE). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (seeCONTRAINDICATIONSandWARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and OVERDOSAGE ). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or ht tp://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). There have also been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals or reducing the amount taken at one time. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see ). Gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Potassium Chloride Extended- release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq (see and ). In addition to gastrointestinal bleeding and ulceration, perforation and obstruction have been reported in patients treated with other solid KCI dosage forms, and may occur with Potassium Chloride Extended-release Capsules, USP, 8 mEq and 10 mEq. The most common adverse reactions to the oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely with potassium preparations. , , AND CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS OVERDOSAGE CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Penicillin is a substance of low toxicity but does have a significant index of sensitization. The following hypersensitivity reactions have been reported: skin rashes ranging from maculopapular eruptions to exfoliative dermatitis; urticaria; and reactions resembling serum sickness, including chills, fever, edema, arthralgia and prostration. Severe and occasionally fatal anaphylaxis has occurred (see WARNINGS). Hemolytic anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, nephropathy, and neuropathy are rarely observed adverse reactions and are usually associated with high intravenous dosage. Patients given continuous intravenous therapy with penicillin G potassium in high dosage (10 million to 100 million units daily) may suffer severe or even fatal potassium poisoning, particularly if renal insufficiency is present. Hyperreflexia, convulsions, and coma may be indicative of this syndrome. Cardiac arrhythmias and cardiac arrest may also occur. (High dosage of penicillin G sodium may result in congestive heart failure due to high sodium intake.) The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction has been reported in patients treated for syphilis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions A 3.5% to 5% solution of amino acids (without additives) is slightly hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Electrolyte additives should be spread throughout the day. Irritating additive medications may need to be infused at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions Aminosyn 3.5% M* Sulfite-Free, (a crystalline amino acid solution* with maintenance electrolytes) is hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may need to be injected at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distention or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes can be minimized when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue administration of the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions No adverse reactions were identified in Baxter's Adverse Event Reporting System database with Lactated Ringer's Irrigation. Class Reactions Adverse reactions reported with Lactated Ringer's Irrigation (manufacturer unspecified) are: Fluid absorption manifested by Pulmonary edema, Edema, and Electrolyte disturbances. Though not indicated for intravenous administration, absorption of irrigation fluid into tissue or vasculature through a perforation or open wound is possible. As a result, adverse reactions reported with Lactated Ringer's solutions with and without Dextrose for intravenous administration may be applicable and include: -Hypersensitivity reactions, including Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid reactions, with the following manifestations: Angioedema, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Decreased heart rate, Tachycardia, Blood pressure decreased, Respiratory distress, Bronchospasm, Dyspnea, Cough, Urticaria, Rash, Pruritus, Erythema, Flushing, Throat irritation, Paresthesias, Hypoesthesia oral, Dysgeusia, Nausea, Anxiety, Headache, Hyperkalemia -Pyrexia Overdose In the event of clinically relevant absorption of irrigation fluid, the patients must be evaluated and corrective measures instituted as appropriate."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety and headache Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing -Hyperkalemia -Hypervolemia -Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Class Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Hypervolemia Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Hypotension, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Wheezing, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Pyrexia, Chills -Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia, Hyperglycemia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions, reported with PLASMA-LYTE products are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest Pain, Respiratory rate increased, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral -Infusion site pain"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions; Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia was well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia as well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Potassium intoxication with mild or severe hyperkalemia has been reported. The signs and symptoms of intoxication include, paresthesia of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmia, heart block, electrographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. EKG abnormalities serve as a clinical reflection of the seriousness of changes in serum potassium concentrations: peaked T waves and prolonged P-R intervals usually occur with modest elevations above the upper limit of normal potassium concentrations; P waves disappear, the QRS complex widens, and eventual asystole usually occurs with higher elevations. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Infusion of highly concentrated potassium chloride solutions may cause local pain and vein irritation. (See Warnings ). Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain and diarrhea. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Potassium intoxication with mild or severe hyperkalemia has been reported. The signs and symptoms of intoxication include paresthesia of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmia, heart block, electrographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. EKG abnormalities serve as a clinical reflection of the seriousness of changes in serum potassium concentrations: peaked T waves and prolonged P-R intervals usually occur with modest elevations above the upper limit of normal potassium concentrations; P waves disappear, the QRS complex widens, and eventual asystole usually occurs with higher elevations. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Infusion of highly concentrated potassium chloride solutions may cause local pain and vein irritation. (See WARNINGS ). Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain and diarrhea. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS PSORIZIDE(R) Forte contains low doses of active ingredients. Therefore there are minimal known side effects. (see PRECAUTIONS for hypersensitivity information)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS PSORIZIDE(R) ULTRA contains low doses of active ingredients. Therefore there are minimal known side effects. (see PRECAUTIONS for hypersensitivity information)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the potassium-containing solutions or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection or extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. To rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Potassium-containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues. Therefore, extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration. Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs. Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phelbitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption or neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Dosage and Administration As directed by a physician. Dosage is dependent upon the age, weight and clinical condition of the patient as well as laboratory determinations. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Use of final filter is recommended during administration of all parenteral solutions, where possible. Potassium Chloride in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in flexible plastic containers is intended for intravenous administration. Additives may be incompatible. Complete information is not available. Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used. Consult with pharmacist, if available. If, in the informed judgment of the physician, it is deemed advisable to introduce additives, use aseptic technique. Mix thoroughly when additives have been introduced. Do not store solutions containing additives."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Dextrose may be administered at a rate of 0.5 g/kg/hour without producing glycosuria. Hyperglycemia and glycosuria may be a function of rate of administration or metabolic insufficiency. Appropriate therapy may include slowing of the infusion rate and administration of insulin. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing. Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reaction to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"Adverse Reactions Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and, rarely, vein irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of adminstration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, hypervolemia, and hyperkalemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and rarely, vein irritiation. Rate of adminstration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If an adverse reaction does not occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solutions or technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported with potassium therapy. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. Potassium-containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues. Therefore, extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration. Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs. Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported. Should perivascular infiltration occur, I.V. administration at that site should be discontinued at once. Local infiltration of the affected area with procaine hydrochloride, 1%, to which hyaluronidase may be added, will often reduce venospasm and dilute the potassium remaining in the tissues locally. Local application of heat may also be helpful."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 *Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in 858 patients treated for essential hypertension and 3889 patients treated for hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. In clinical trials with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, no adverse experiences peculiar to this combination have been observed. Adverse experiences have been limited to those that were reported previously with losartan potassium and/or hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of adverse experiences reported with the combination was comparable to placebo. In general, treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. For the most part, adverse experiences have been mild and transient in nature and have not required discontinuation of therapy. In controlled clinical trials, discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences was required in only 2.8% and 2.3% of patients treated with the combination and placebo, respectively. In these double-blind controlled clinical trials, the following adverse experiences reported with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide occurred in >=1 percent of patients, and more often on drug than placebo, regardless of drug relationship: Table 1: Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide (n=858) Placebo (n=173) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 1.2 0.6 Edema/swelling 1.3 1.2 Cardiovascular Palpitation 1.4 0.0 Musculoskeletal Back pain 2.1 0.6 Nervous/Psychiatric Dizziness 5.7 2.9 Respiratory Cough 2.6 2.3 Sinusitis 1.2 0.6 Upper respiratory infection 6.1 4.6 Skin Rash 1.4 0.0 The following adverse events were also reported at a rate of 1% or greater, but were as, or more, common in the placebo group in studies of essential hypertension: asthenia/fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, headache, bronchitis, pharyngitis. Adverse events occurred at about the same rates in men and women. Adverse events were somewhat more frequent in the elderly compared to non-elderly patients and somewhat more frequent in Blacks compared to non-Blacks for both the losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the control groups. A patient with known hypersensitivity to aspirin and penicillin, when treated with losartan potassium, was withdrawn from study due to swelling of the lips and eyelids and facial rash, reported as angioedema, which returned to normal 5 days after therapy was discontinued. Superficial peeling of palms and hemolysis were reported in one subject treated with losartan potassium. Losartan Potassium Other adverse experiences that have been reported with losartan, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: chest pain, facial edema, fever, orthostatic effects, syncope; Cardiovascular: angina pectoris, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sinus bradycardia, tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, CVA, hypotension, myocardial infarction, second degree AV block; Digestive: anorexia, constipation, dental pain, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, vomiting; General disorders and administration site conditions: malaise; Hematologic: anemia; Metabolic: gout; Musculoskeletal: arm pain, arthralgia, arthritis, fibromyalgia, hip pain, joint swelling, knee pain, leg pain, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, shoulder pain, stiffness; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anxiety, anxiety disorder, ataxia, confusion, depression, dream abnormality, hypesthesia, insomnia, libido decreased, memory impairment, migraine, nervousness, panic disorder, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo; Respiratory: dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal congestion, pharyngeal discomfort, respiratory congestion, rhinitis, sinus disorder; Skin: alopecia, dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, erythema, flushing, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria; Special Senses: blurred vision, burning/stinging in the eye, conjunctivitis, decrease in visual acuity, taste perversion, tinnitus; Urogenital: impotence, nocturia, urinary frequency, urinary tract infection. Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse experiences that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide, without regard to causality, are listed below: Body as a Whole: weakness; Digestive: pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), sialadenitis, cramping, gastric irritation; Hematologic: aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia; Hypersensitivity: purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis), fever, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema; Metabolic: hyperglycemia, glycosuria, hyperuricemia; Musculoskeletal: muscle spasm; Nervous System/Psychiatric: restlessness; Renal: renal failure, renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis; Skin: erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis; Special Senses: transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Persistent dry cough (with an incidence of a few percent) has been associated with ACE-inhibitor use and in practice can be a cause of discontinuation of ACE-inhibitor therapy. Two prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, controlled trials were conducted to assess the effects of losartan on the incidence of cough in hypertensive patients who had experienced cough while receiving ACE-inhibitor therapy. Patients who had typical ACE-inhibitor cough when challenged with lisinopril, whose cough disappeared on placebo, were randomized to losartan 50 mg, lisinopril 20 mg, or either placebo (one study, n=97) or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (n=135). The double-blind treatment period lasted up to 8 weeks. The incidence of cough is shown below. Table 2 *Demographics = (89% caucasian, 64% female)  Demographics = (90% caucasian, 51% female) Study 1* HCTZ Losartan Lisinopril Cough 25% 17% 69% Study 2 Placebo Losartan Lisinopril Cough 35% 29% 62% These studies demonstrate that the incidence of cough associated with losartan therapy, in a population that all had cough associated with ACE-inhibitor therapy, is similar to that associated with hydrochlorothiazide or placebo therapy. Cases of cough, including positive re-challenges, have been reported with the use of losartan in postmarketing experience. Severe Hypertension: In a clinical study in patients with severe hypertension (SiDBP >=110 mmHg), the overall pattern of adverse events reported through six weeks of follow-up was similar in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets as initial therapy and in patients treated with losartan as initial therapy. There were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 2 (0.6%) and 0 (0.0%) cases of hypotension reported in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively. There were 3 (0.8%) and 2 (1.2%) cases of increased serum creatinine (>0.5 mg/dL) in the group treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and the group treated with losartan, respectively, during the same time period (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Severe Hypertension.) Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience: Digestive: Hepatitis has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan. Hemic: Thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity: Angioedema, including swelling of the larynx and glottis, causing airway obstruction and/or swelling of the face, lips, pharynx, and/or tongue has been reported rarely in patients treated with losartan; some of these patients previously experienced angioedema with other drugs including ACE inhibitors. Vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura, has been reported with losartan. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported. Metabolic and Nutrition: Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia have been reported with losartan. Musculoskeletal: Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor blockers. Respiratory: Dry cough (see above) has been reported with losartan. Skin: Erythroderma has been reported with losartan. Laboratory Test Findings In controlled clinical trials, clinically important changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with administration of Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen: Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or serum creatinine were observed in 0.6 and 0.8 percent, respectively, of patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone. No patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to increased BUN. One patient discontinued taking Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets due to a minor increase in serum creatinine. Hemoglobin and Hematocrit: Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of approximately 0.14 grams percent and 0.72 volume percent, respectively) occurred frequently in patients treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, but were rarely of clinical importance. No patients were discontinued due to anemia. Liver Function Tests: Occasional elevations of liver enzymes and/or serum bilirubin have occurred. In patients with essential hypertension treated with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets alone, no patients were discontinued due to these laboratory adverse experiences. Serum Electrolytes: See PRECAUTIONS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS, and OVERDOSAGE). There also have been reports of upper and lower gastrointestinal conditions including obstruction, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS). The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal pain/discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by taking the dose with meals, or reducing the amount taken at one time. Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS Too rapid infusion of these CLINIMIX E sulfite-free (Amino Acid with Electrolytes in Dextrose with Calcium) Injections may result in diuresis, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and hyperosmolar coma. Continual clinical monitoring of the patient is necessary in order to identify and initiate measures for these clinical conditions. Reactions that may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Policies and procedures should be established for the recognition and management of such reactions. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Some patients may develop minor gastrointestinal complaints during potassium citrate therapy, such as abdominal discomfort, vomiting, diarrhea, loose bowel movements or nausea. These symptoms are due to the irritation of the gastrointestinal tract, and may be alleviated by taking the dose with meals or snack, or by reducing the dosage. Patients may find intact matrices in feces. (see also CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in TPN Electrolytes. Therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte blood levels is recommended. Sodium excess can cause edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure. Excess potassium can cause deviations from the normal ECG (electrocardiogram). Potassium deficits can impair neuromuscular function, causing muscle weakness or frank paralysis, intestinal dilatation and ileus. Calcium deficits can produce neuromuscular hyperexcitability, ranging from paresthesias, cramps and laryngospasm to tetany and grand mal seizures. Depressed calcium levels can accompany administration of parenteral phosphorous or large amounts of albumin. Magnesium deficiency can precipitate neuromuscular dysfunction, hyperirritability, psychotic behavior, tachycardia and hypertension. Magnesium excess can cause muscle weakness, ECG changes, sedation and mental confusion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning. Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the dose. One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see Contraindications , Warnings and Overdosage). Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the dose. One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see Contraindications, Warnings and Overdosage). Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, and diarrhea. These symptoms are due to irritation of the gastrointestinal tract and are best managed by diluting the preparation further, taking the dose with meals, or reducing the dose. One of the most severe adverse effects is hyperkalemia (see Contraindications, Warnings and Overdosage). Skin rash has been reported rarely."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The most severe adverse effectis hyperkalemia which may casue cardiac arrhytmias, heart block, and fall in blood pressure. Flaccid paralysis, mental confussion, lislessness, paresthesias of the extremities, and weakness of the legs may be present. Nausea, vomiting, and diarreha are best avoided by dilutingthe preparation as specified in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, and taking with food."$$
"DRUG INTERACTION Interaction with Potassium Sparing Diuretics: Hypokalemia should not be treated by the concomitant administration of potassium salts and potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene or amiloride) since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. Interaction with ACE inhibitors: Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (e.g., captopril, enlapril) will produce some potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Potassium supplements should be given to patients receiving ACE inhibitors only with close monitoring."$$
"Drug Interactions:",$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Normosol-R pH 7.4 does not contain calcium to avoid precipitation of calcium salts that may occur when certain drugs are added. Solutions which contain calcium in amounts exceeding the normal plasma concentration may enhance clotting on contact with citrated blood. Hence, Normosol-R pH 7.4 can be used for starting a blood transfusion."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. (See PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution container permits. (See PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. (See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE.)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. (See INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE.) Pregnancy Category C. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Plegisol. It is also not known whether this solution can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Plegisol should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts, and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"Drug Interactions Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect."$$
"Drug Interactions Bacteriostatic antibacterials (i.e., chloramphenicol, erythromycins, sulfonamides or tetracyclines) may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin, and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. This has been documented in vitro, however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well-documented. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Other drugs may compete with penicillin G for renal tubular secretion and thus prolong the serum half-life of penicillin. These drugs include: aspirin, phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, indomethacin, thiazide diuretics, furosemide and ethacrynic acid."$$
"Drug Interactions Bacteriostatic antibacterials (i.e., chloramphenicol, erythromycins, sulfonamides or tetracyclines) may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin, and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. This has been documented in vitro; however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well-documented. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Other drugs may compete with penicillin G for renal tubular secretion and thus prolong the serum half-life of penicillin. These drugs include: aspirin, phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, indomethacin, thiazide diuretics, furosemide and ethacrynic acid."$$
"Drug Interactions Bacteriostatic antibacterials (i.e., chloramphenicol, erythromycins, sulfonamides or tetracyclines) may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin, and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. This has been documented in vitro, however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well-documented. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Other drugs may compete with Penicillin G for renal tubular secretion and thus prolong the serum half-life of penicillin. These drugs include: aspirin, phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, indomethacin, thiazide diuretics, furosemide and ethacrynic acid."$$
"Drug Interactions Because of its antianabolic activity, concurrent administration of tetracycline may reduce the potential anabolic effects of amino acids infused with dextrose as part of a parenteral feeding regimen. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with these medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triameterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be avoided in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with such medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Concurrent administration of bacteriostatic antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, tetracycline) may diminish the bactericidal effects of penicillins by slowing the rate of bacterial growth. Bactericidal agents work most effectively against the immature cell wall of rapidly proliferating microorganisms. This has been demonstrated in vitro; however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well documented. There are few clinical situations in which the concurrent use of \\\\"static\\\\" and \\\\"cidal\\\\" antibiotics are indicated. However, in selected circumstances in which such therapy is appropriate, using adequate doses of antibacterial agents and beginning penicillin therapy first, should minimize the potential for interaction. Penicillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Displacement of penicillin from plasma protein binding sites will elevate the level of free penicillin in the serum."$$
"Drug Interactions: Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing Colyte for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizures, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate (see Precautions) in patients taking these concomitant medications. Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of Colyte may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and the medication may not be absorbed properly."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. V-Natal Tabs does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate** include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-HEME OB Tabs does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate include but are not limited to: First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folate may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce the effectiveness of first generation anticonvulsants and/or increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible patients. Caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) on folate levels is limited and interactions cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. Levodopa: Levodopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B6 include but are not limited to: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa may be antagonized by vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 may or may not interfere with levodopa even when used concurrently with carbidopa. Drugs which may interact with vitamin B12 include but are not limited to: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions For information on the use of Ringer's Injection, USP with ceftriaxone, see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections."$$
"Drug Interactions If clinically relevant amounts of solution have been absorbed, potential interactions with other agents must be considered, such as: Patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids and carbenoxolone, may have an increased risk of sodium and fluid retention. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Irrigation may interfere with the elimination of drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent: -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates, barbiturates, and lithium may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, and fenfluramine (phenfluramine) hydrochloride may be decreased. The risk of hyperkalemia is increased in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium-sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triameterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with such medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Absorption of calcium-containing solutions may increase the effects of digitalis and lead to serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmia. In patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, the risk of hypercalcemia is increased."$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan potassium Losartan, administered for 12 days, did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of a single dose of warfarin. Losartan did not affect the pharmacokinetics of oral or intravenous digoxin. There is no pharmacokinetic interaction between losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Coadministration of losartan and cimetidine led to an increase of about 18% in AUC of losartan but did not affect the pharmacokinetics of its active metabolite. Coadministration of losartan and phenobarbital led to a reduction of about 20% in the AUC of losartan and that of its active metabolite. A somewhat greater interaction (approximately 40% reduction in the AUC of active metabolite and approximately 30% reduction in the AUC of losartan) has been reported with rifampin. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2C9, decreased the AUC of the active metabolite by approximately 40%, but increased the AUC of losartan by approximately 70% following multiple doses. Conversion of losartan to its active metabolite after intravenous administration is not affected by ketoconazole, an inhibitor of P450 3A4. The AUC of active metabolite following oral losartan was not affected by erythromycin, another inhibitor of P450 3A4, but the AUC of losartan was increased by 30%. Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide, diuresis begins within 2 hours, peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney. When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours, the plasma half-life has been observed to vary between 5.6 and 14.8 hours. At least 61 percent of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood-brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk.",$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium Losartan, administered for 12 days, did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of a single dose of warfarin. Losartan did not affect the pharmacokinetics of oral or intravenous digoxin. There is no pharmacokinetic interaction between losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Coadministration of losartan and cimetidine led to an increase of about 18% in AUC of losartan but did not affect the pharmacokinetics of its active metabolite. Coadministration of losartan and phenobarbital led to a reduction of about 20% in the AUC of losartan and that of its active metabolite. A somewhat greater interaction (approximately 40% reduction in the AUC of active metabolite and approximately 30% reduction in the AUC of losartan) has been reported with rifampin. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2C9, decreased the AUC of the active metabolite by approximately 40%, but increased the AUC of losartan by approximately 70% following multiple doses. Conversion of losartan to its active metabolite after intravenous administration is not affected by ketoconazole, an inhibitor of P450 3A4. The AUC of active metabolite following oral losartan was not affected by erythromycin, another inhibitor of P450 3A4, but the AUC of losartan was increased by 30%. Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide, diuresis begins within 2 hours, peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney. When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours, the plasma half-life has been observed to vary between 5.6 and 14.8 hours. At least 61 percent of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood-brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk.",$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium Losartan, administered for 12 days, did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of a single dose of warfarin. Losartan did not affect the pharmacokinetics of oral or intravenous digoxin. There is no pharmacokinetic interaction between losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Coadministration of losartan and cimetidine led to an increase of about 18% in AUC of losartan but did not affect the pharmacokinetics of its active metabolite. Coadministration of losartan and phenobarbital led to a reduction of about 20% in the AUC of losartan and that of its active metabolite. A somewhat greater interaction (approximately 40% reduction in the AUC of active metabolite and approximately 30% reduction in the AUC of losartan) has been reported with rifampin. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2C9,decreased the AUC of the active metabolite by approximately 40%, but increased the AUC of losartan by approximately 70% following multiple doses. Conversion of losartan to its active metabolite after intravenous administration is not affected by ketoconazole, an inhibitor of P450 3A4. The AUC of active metabolite following oral losartan was not affected by erythromycin, another inhibitor of P450 3A4, but the AUC of losartan was increased by 30%. Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide, diuresis begins within 2 hours, peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney. When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours, the plasma half-life has been observed to vary between 5.6 and 14.8 hours. At least 61 percent of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood-brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk.",$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium No significant drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions have been found in interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine and phenobarbital. Rifampin, an inducer of drug metabolism, decreased the concentrations of losartan and its active metabolite. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions ).In humans, two inhibitors of P450 3A4 have been studied. Ketoconazole did not affect the conversion of losartan to the active metabolite after intravenous administration of losartan, and erythromycin had no clinically significant effect after oral administration. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of P450 2C9, decreased active metabolite concentration and increased losartan concentration. The pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant use of losartan and inhibitors of P450 2C9 have not been examined. Subjects who do not metabolize losartan to active metabolite have been shown to have a specific, rare defect in cytochrome P450 2C9. These data suggest that the conversion of losartan to its active metabolite is mediated primarily by P450 2C9 and not P450 3A4. As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements). Lithium: As with other drugs which affect the excretion of sodium, lithium excretion may be reduced. Therefore, serum lithium levels should be monitored carefully if lithium salts are to be co-administered with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system: It has been reported in the literature that in patients with established atherosclerotic disease, heart failure, or with diabetes with end organ damage, dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is associated with a higher frequency of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) as compared to use of a single renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system agent. Dual blockade (e.g., by adding an ACE inhibitor to an angiotensin II receptor antagonist) should be limited to individually defined cases with close monitoring of renal function. Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics \\342\\224\\200 potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\224\\200 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs \\342\\224\\200 additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\224\\200 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH, or glycyrrhizin (found in liquorice) \\342\\200\\224 intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) \\342\\224\\200 possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) \\342\\224\\200 possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium \\342\\224\\200 should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) - The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, co-administration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy."$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium No significant drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions have been found in interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine and phenobarbital. Rifampin, an inducer of drug metabolism, decreased the concentrations of losartan and its active metabolite. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions.) In humans, two inhibitors of P450 3A4 have been studied. Ketoconazole did not affect the conversion of losartan to the active metabolite after intravenous administration of losartan, and erythromycin had no clinically significant effect after oral administration. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of P450 2C9, decreased active metabolite concentration and increased losartan concentration. The pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant use of losartan and inhibitors of P450 2C9 have not been examined. Subjects who do not metabolize losartan to active metabolite have been shown to have a specific, rare defect in cytochrome P450 2C9. These data suggest that the conversion of losartan to its active metabolite is mediated primarily by P450 2C9 and not P450 3A4. As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements). Lithium: As with other drugs which affect the excretion of sodium, lithium excretion may be reduced. Therefore, serum lithium levels should be monitored carefully if lithium salts are to be co-administered with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics \\342\\224\\200 potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\224\\200 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs \\342\\224\\200 additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\224\\200 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH, or glycyrrhizin (found in liquorice) \\342\\200\\224 intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) \\342\\224\\200 possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) \\342\\224\\200 possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium \\342\\224\\200 should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) - The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, co-administration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy."$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium No significant drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions have been found in interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine and phenobarbital. Rifampin, an inducer of drug metabolism, decreased the concentrations of losartan and its active metabolite. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions).In humans, two inhibitors of P450 3A4 have been studied. Ketoconazole did not affect the conversion of losartan to the active metabolite after intravenous administration of losartan, and erythromycin had no clinically significant effect after oral administration. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of P450 2C9, decreased active metabolite concentration and increased losartan concentration. The pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant use of losartan and inhibitors of P450 2C9 have not been examined. Subjects who do not metabolize losartan to active metabolite have been shown to have a specific, rare defect in cytochrome P450 2C9. These data suggest that the conversion of losartan to its active metabolite is mediated primarily by P450 2C9 and not P450 3A4. As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements). Lithium: As with other drugs which affect the excretion of sodium, lithium excretion may be reduced. Therefore, serum lithium levels should be monitored carefully if lithium salts are to be co-administered with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics \\342\\224\\200 potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\224\\200 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs \\342\\224\\200 additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\224\\200 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH, or glycyrrhizin (found in liquorice) \\342\\200\\224 intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) \\342\\224\\200 possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) \\342\\224\\200 possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium \\342\\224\\200 should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) - The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, co-administration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy."$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium No significant drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions have been found in interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine and phenobarbital. Rifampin, an inducer of drug metabolism, decreased the concentrations of losartan and its active metabolite. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions.) In humans, two inhibitors of P450 3A4 have been studied. Ketoconazole did not affect the conversion of losartan to the active metabolite after intravenous administration of losartan, and erythromycin had no clinically significant effect after oral administration. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of P450 2C9, decreased active metabolite concentration and increased losartan concentration. The pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant use of losartan and inhibitors of P450 2C9 have not been examined. Subjects who do not metabolize losartan to active metabolite have been shown to have a specific, rare defect in cytochrome P450 2C9. These data suggest that the conversion of losartan to its active metabolite is mediated primarily by P450 2C9 and not P450 3A4. As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements). Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics \\342\\224\\200 potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\224\\200 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs \\342\\224\\200 additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins \\342\\224\\200 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH, or glycyrrhizin (found in liquorice) \\342\\200\\224 intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) \\342\\224\\200 possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) \\342\\224\\200 possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium \\342\\224\\200 should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) - The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, co-administration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy."$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium No significant drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions have been found in interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine and phenobarbital. Rifampin, an inducer of drug metabolism, decreased the concentrations of losartan and its active metabolite (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions). In humans, two inhibitors of P450 3A4 have been studied. Ketoconazole did not affect the conversion of losartan to the active metabolite after intravenous administration of losartan, and erythromycin had no clinically significant effect after oral administration. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of P450 2C9, decreased active metabolite concentration and increased losartan concentration. The pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant use of losartan and inhibitors of P450 2C9 have not been examined. Subjects who do not metabolize losartan to active metabolite have been shown to have a specific, rare defect in cytochrome P450 2C9. These data suggest that the conversion of losartan to its active metabolite is mediated primarily by P450 2C9 and not P450 3A4. As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements). Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinaryalbumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH, or glycyrrhizin (found in liquorice) - intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium - should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) - The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, co-administration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy."$$
"Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium No significant drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions have been found in interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine and phenobarbital. Rifampin, an inducer of drug metabolism, decreased the concentrations of losartan and its active metabolite. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, .) In humans, two inhibitors of P450 3A4 have been studied. Ketoconazole did not affect the conversion of losartan to the active metabolite after intravenous administration of losartan, and erythromycin had no clinically significant effect after oral administration. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of P450 2C9, decreased active metabolite concentration and increased losartan concentration. The pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant use of losartan and inhibitors of P450 2C9 have not been examined. Subjects who do not metabolize losartan to active metabolite have been shown to have a specific, rare defect in cytochrome P450 2C9. These data suggest that the conversion of losartan to its active metabolite is mediated primarily by P450 2C9 and not P450 3A4. Drug Interactions As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, ). Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Lithium: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: \\342\\224\\200 potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics (oral agents and insulin) \\342\\224\\200 dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Antidiabetic drugs \\342\\224\\200 additive effect or potentiation. Other antihypertensive drugs \\342\\224\\200 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins ACTH, or glycyrrhizin (found in liquorice) \\342\\200\\224 intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Corticosteroids, \\342\\224\\200 possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) \\342\\224\\200 possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) \\342\\224\\200 should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. Lithium - The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients receiving diuretic therapy, co-administration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy."$$
"Drug Interactions Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of GaviLyte -N may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed."$$
"Drug Interactions: Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of NuLYTELY may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of PEG-3350 & ELECTROLYTES may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed. CARCINOGENESIS, MUTAGENESIS, IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY: Studies to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential or potential to adversely affect male or female fertility have not been performed. PREGNANCY: Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PEG-3350 & ELECTROLYTES, and it is not known whether PEG-3350 & ELECTROLYTES can affect reproductive capacity or harm the fetus when administered to a pregnant patient. PEG-3350 & ELECTROLYTES should be given to a pregnant patient only if clearly needed. PEDIATRIC USE: Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. GERIATRIC USE: Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reactions following the administration of PEG-ELS products in patients over 60 years of age. These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory-Weiss Tear, esophageal perforation, asystole, sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema, and \\\\"butterfly-like\\\\" infiltrate on chest x-ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG."$$
"Drug Interactions Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of PEG-3350, SODIUM CHLORIDE, POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM BICARBONATE may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed."$$
"Drug Interactions Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of TRILYTE with flavor packs may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretic, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretic, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: see WARNINGS ."$$
"Drug Interactions: Potassium-sparing diuretic, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions: Potassium-sparing diuretic, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS)."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see Warnings )."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS)."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: (see WARNINGS)."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (see ). WARNINGS"$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS)."$$
"Drug Interactions: Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"Drug Interactions: Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (see W A RN INGS)."$$
"Drug Interactions: Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (see WARNINGS )."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (seeWARNINGS)."$$
"Drug Interactions - Severe hyperkalemia can be produced by the simultaneous administration of potassium supplements and a potassium-sparing diuretic (see Contraindications). Potassium supplements should be used carefully by patients who are using salt substitutes, because many of these substitutes contain large amounts of potassium. This simultaneous use could produce hyperkalemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics, or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques. Mix thoroughly. Do not store."$$
"Drug interactions There are no known drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions There are no known drug interactions."$$
"Drug interactions There are no known drug interactions. Since copper deficiency in human nutrition has occasionally been induced by supplemental zinc therapy, copper has been added in order to minimize this rare occurrence. (see Inactive ingredients) For Tetracycline or Quinolones co-administration with Acunol, see Dosage and Administration"$$
"Drug Interactions The simultaneous administration of potassium supplements and a potassium-sparing diuretic can produce severe hyperkalemia (see Contraindications). Potassium supplements should be used cautiously in patients who are using salt substitutes, because most of the latter contain substantial amounts of potassium. Such concomitant use could result in hyperkalemia. Moreover, the following drugs may produce unfavorable interactions when used concomitantly with potassium supplements: angiotension-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), beta-adrenergic blocking drugs, heparin, low-salt foods, other potassium containing medications, digitalis glycosides and others."$$
"Potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (see ). Drug Interactions WARNINGS"$$
"Safe - soothing - preservative free - no side effects - no drug interactions - works naturally with your body"$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Warnings and Precautions None"$$
