
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONSIn a survey conducted in hospitalized patients, less than 1% of patients taking propoxyphene hydrochloride at recommended dosesexperienced side effects. The most frequently reported were dizziness, sedation, nausea, and vomiting. Some of these adversereactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down.Other adverse reactions include constipation, abdominal pain, skin rashes, lightheadedness, headache, weakness, euphoria, dysphoria,hallucinations, and minor visual disturbances.Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophentablets. Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver function tests and, more rarely, with instances of reversiblejaundice (including cholestatic jaundice). Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen (see OVERDOSAGE).In chronic ethanol"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness, sedation, nausea and vomiting. Other adverse reactions include constipation, abdominal pain, skin rashes, lightheadedness, headache, weakness, euphoria, dysphoria, hallucinations and minor visual disturbances. The most frequently reported post-marketing adverse events have included completed suicide, accidental and intentional overdose, drug dependence, cardiac arrest, coma, drug ineffective, drug toxicity, nausea, respiratory arrest, cardio-respiratory arrest, death, vomiting, dizziness, convulsion, confusional state and diarrhea. Additional adverse experiences reported through post-marketing surveillance include: arrhythmia, bradycardia, cardiac/respiratory arrest, congestive arrest, congestive heart failure (CHF), tachycardia, myocardial infarction (MI) Cardiac Disorders: eye swelling, vision blurred Eye Disorder: drug ineffective, drug interaction, drug tolerance, influenza type illness, drug withdrawal syndrome General Disorder and Administration Site Conditions: gastrointestinal bleed, acute pancreatitis Gastrointestinal Disorder: hepatic steatosis, hepatomegaly, hepatocellular injury Hepatobiliary Disorder: hypersensitivity Immune System Disorder: drug toxicity, hip fracture, multiple drug overdose, narcotic overdose Injury Poisoning and Procedural Complications: blood pressure decreased, heart rate elevated/abnormal Investigations: metabolic acidosis Metabolism and Nutrition Disorder: ataxia, coma, dizziness, somnolence, syncope Nervous System Disorder: abnormal behavior, confusional state, hallucinations, mental status change Psychiatric: respiratory depression, dyspnoea Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: rash, itch Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorder: Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen tablets. Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver function tests and, more rarely, with instances of reversible jaundice (including cholestatic jaundice). Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen (see ). In chronic ethanol abusers, this has been reported rarely with short-term use of acetaminophen dosages of 2.5 to 10 g/day. Fatalities have occurred. OVERDOSAGE There have also been post-marketing reports of renal papillary necrosis associated with chronic acetaminophen use, particularly when the dosage is greater than recommended and when combined with aspirin. Subacute painful myopathy has been reported following chronic propoxyphene overdosage."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness, sedation, nausea and vomiting. Other adverse reactions include constipation, abdominal pain, skin rashes, lightheadedness, headache, weakness, euphoria, dysphoria, hallucinations and minor visual disturbances. The most frequently reported post-marketing adverse events have included completed suicide, accidental and intentional overdose, drug dependence, cardiac arrest, coma, drug ineffective, drug toxicity, nausea, respiratory arrest, cardio-respiratory arrest, death, vomiting, dizziness, convulsion, confusional state and diarrhea. Additional adverse experiences reported through post-marketing surveillance include: Cardiac Disorders: arrhythmia, bradycardia, cardiac/respiratory arrest, congestive arrest, congestive heart failure (CHF), tachycardia, myocardial infarction (MI) Eye Disorder: eye swelling, vision blurred General Disorder and Administration Site Conditions: drug ineffective, drug interaction, drug tolerance, influenza type illness, drug withdrawal syndrome Gastrointestinal Disorder: gastrointestinal bleed, acute pancreatitis Hepatobiliary Disorder: hepatic steatosis, hepatomegaly, hepatocellular injury Immune System Disorder: hypersensitivity Injury Poisoning and Procedural Complications: drug toxicity, hip fracture, multiple drug overdose, narcotic overdose Investigations: blood pressure decreased, heart rate elevated/abnormal Metabolism and Nutrition Disorder: metabolic acidosis Nervous System Disorder: ataxia, coma, dizziness, somnolence, syncope Psychiatric: abnormal behavior, confusional state, hallucinations, mental status change Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: respiratory depression, dyspnoea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorder: rash, itch Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets. Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver function tests and, more rarely, with instances of reversible jaundice (including cholestatic jaundice). Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen (see OVERDOSAGE). In chronic ethanol abusers, this has been reported rarely with short-term use of acetaminophen dosages of 2.5 to 10 g/day. Fatalities have occurred. There have also been post-marketing reports of renal papillary necrosis associated with chronic acetaminophen use, particularly when the dosage is greater than recommended and when combined with aspirin. Subacute painful myopathy has been reported following chronic propoxyphene overdosage."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness, sedation, nausea, and vomiting. Other adverse reactions include constipation, abdominal pain, skin rashes, lightheadedness, headache, weakness, euphoria, dysphoria, hallucinations, and minor visual disturbances. The most frequently reported postmarketing adverse events have included completed suicide, accidental and intentional overdose, drug dependence, cardiac arrest, coma, drug ineffective, drug toxicity, nausea, respiratory arrest, cardio-respiratory arrest, death, vomiting, dizziness, convulsion, confusional state, and diarrhea. Additional adverse experiences reported through postmarketing surveillance include: Cardiac disorders: arrhythmia, bradycardia, cardiac/respiratory arrest, congestive arrest, congestive heart failure (CHF), tachycardia, myocardial infarction (MI) Eye disorder: eye swelling, vision blurred General disorder and administration site conditions: drug ineffective, drug interaction, drug tolerance, influenza type illness, drug withdrawal syndrome Gastrointestinal disorder: gastrointestinal bleed, acute pancreatitis Hepatobiliary disorder: hepatic steatosis, hepatomegaly, hepatocellular injury Immune system disorder: hypersensitivity Injury poisoning and procedural complications: drug toxicity, hip fracture, multiple drug overdose, narcotic overdose Investigations: blood pressure decreased, heart rate elevated/abnormal Metabolism and nutrition disorder: metabolic acidosis Nervous system disorder: ataxia, coma, dizziness, somnolence, syncope Psychiatric: abnormal behavior, confusional state, hallucinations, mental status change Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders: respiratory depression, dyspnoea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorder: rash, itch Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen tablets. Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver function tests and, more rarely, with instances of reversible jaundice (including cholestatic jaundice). Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen (see OVERDOSAGE ). In chronic ethanol abusers, this has been reported rarely with short-term use of acetaminophen dosages of 2.5 to 10 g/day. Fatalities have occurred. There have also been postmarketing reports of renal papillary necrosis associated with chronic acetaminophen use, particularly when the dosage is greater than recommended and when combined with aspirin. Subacute painful myopathy has been reported following chronic propoxyphene overdosage."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness, sedation, nausea, and vomiting. Other adverse reactions include constipation, abdominal pain, skin rashes, lightheadedness, headache, weakness, euphoria, dysphoria, hallucinations, and minor visual disturbances. The most frequently reported postmarketing adverse events have included completed suicide, accidental and intentional overdose, drug dependence, cardiac arrest, coma, drug ineffective, drug toxicity, nausea, respiratory arrest, cardio-respiratory arrest, death, vomiting, dizziness, convulsion, confusional state, and diarrhea. Additional adverse experiences reported through postmarketing surveillance include: Cardiac disorders: arrhythmia, bradycardia, cardiac/respiratory arrest, congestive arrest, congestive heart failure (CHF), tachycardia, myocardial infarction (MI) Eye disorder: eye swelling, vision blurred General disorder and administration site conditions: drug ineffective, drug interaction, drug tolerance, influenza type illness, drug withdrawal syndrome Gastrointestinal disorder: gastrointestinal bleed, acute pancreatitis Hepatobiliary disorder: hepatic steatosis, hepatomegaly, hepatocellular injury Immune system disorder: hypersensitivity Injury poisoning and procedural complications: drug toxicity, hip fracture, multiple drug overdose, narcotic overdose Investigations: blood pressure decreased, heart rate elevated/abnormal Metabolism and nutrition disorder: metabolic acidosis Nervous system disorder: ataxia, coma, dizziness, somnolence, syncope Psychiatric: abnormal behavior, confusional state, hallucinations, mental status change Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders: respiratory depression, dyspnoea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorder: rash, itch Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen tablets. Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver function tests and, more rarely, with instances of reversible jaundice (including cholestatic jaundice). Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen (see OVERDOSAGE). In chronic ethanol abusers, this has been reported rarely with short-term use of acetaminophen dosages of 2.5 to 10 g/day. Fatalities have occurred. There have also been postmarketing reports of renal papillary necrosis associated with chronic acetaminophen use, particularly when the dosage is greater than recommended and when combined with aspirin. Subacute painful myopathy has been reported following chronic propoxyphene overdosage."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In a survey conducted in hospitalized patients, less than 1% of patients taking propoxyphene hydrochloride at recommended doses experienced side effects. The most frequently reported were dizziness, sedation, nausea, and vomiting. Some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down. Other adverse reactions include constipation, abdominal pain, skin rashes, lightheadedness, headache, weakness, euphoria, dysphoria, hallucinations, and minor visual disturbances. Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene napsylate and acetaminophen tablets. Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver function tests and, more rarely, with instances of reversible jaundice (including cholestatic jaundice). Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen (see OVERDOSAGE ). In chronic ethanol abusers, this has been reported rarely with short-term use of acetaminophen dosages of 2.5 to 10 g/day. Fatalities have occurred. Renal papillary necrosis may result from chronic acetaminophen use, particularly when the dosage is greater than recommended and when combined with aspirin. Subacute painful myopathy has occurred following chronic propoxyphene overdosage."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug InteractionsThe CNS-depressant effect of propoxyphene is additive with that of other CNS depressants, including alcohol.As is the case with many medicinal agents, propoxyphene may slow the metabolism of a concomitantly administered drug. Shouldthis occur, the higher serum concentrations of that drug may result in increased pharmacologic or adverse effects of that drug. Suchoccurrences have been reported when propoxyphene was administered to patients on antidepressants, anticonvulsants, or warfarin-likedrugs. Severe neurologic signs, including coma, have occurred with concurrent use of carbamazepine."$$
"Drug Interactions The CNS-depressant effect of propoxyphene is additive with that of other CNS depressants, including alcohol. As is the case with many medicinal agents, propoxyphene may slow the metabolism of a concomitantly administered drug. Should this occur, the higher serum concentrations of that drug may result in increased pharmacologic or adverse effects of that drug. Such occurrences have been reported when propoxyphene was administered to patients on antidepressants, anticonvulsants, or warfarin-like drugs. Severe neurologic signs, including coma, have occurred with concurrent use of carbamazepine."$$
"Drug Interactions The metabolism of propoxyphene may be altered by strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, troleandomycin, clarithromycin, nelfinavir, nefazadone, amiodarone, amprenavir, aprepitant, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, grapefruit juice, and verapamil) leading to enhanced propoxyphene plasma levels. On the other hand, strong CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampin may lead to enhanced metabolite (norpropoxyphene) levels. Propoxyphene is also thought to possess CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 enzyme inhibiting properties. Coadministration with a drug that is a substrate of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6, may result in higher plasma concentrations and increased pharmacologic or adverse effects of that drug.",$$
