
"ADVERSE REACTIONS It should be noted that about 10% of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have leukopenia (white blood cell count of less than 4,000/mm3), often with relative granulopenia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Major adverse reactions (much less common than the minor adverse reactions) include inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis, granulopenia, and thrombocytopenia), aplastic anemia, drug fever, a lupus-like syndrome (including splenomegaly and vasculitis), hepatitis, periarteritis and hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding. Nephritis, glomerulonephritis, interstitial pneumonitis, exfoliative dermatitis, and erythema nodosum have been reported. Reports of a vasculitic syndrome associated with the presence of anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibiodies (ANCA) have also been received. Manifestations of ANCA-positive vasculitis may include rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (crescentic and pauci-immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis) sometimes leading to acute renal failure; fever; pulmonary infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage; skin ulcers; and leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Minor adverse reactions include skin rash, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, arthralgia, paresthesia, loss of taste, taste perversion, abnormal loss of hair, myalgia, headache, pruritus, drowsiness, neuritis, edema, vertigo, skin pigmentation, jaundice, sialadenopathy, and lymphadenopathy. It should be noted that about 10% of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have leukopenia (white-blood cell count of less than 4,000/mm3), often with relative granulopenia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Major adverse reactions (much less common than theminor adverse reactions) include liver injury resulting inhepatitis, liver failure, a need for liver transplantation ordeath. Inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis,granulopenia, and thrombocytopenia), aplastic anemia,drug fever, a lupus-like syndrome (includingsplenomegaly and vasculitis), hepatitis, periartentis, andhypoprothrombinemia and bleeding have been reported.Nephritis, glomerulonephritis, interstitial pneumonitis,exfoliative dermatitis, and erythema nodosum have beenreported. Reports of a vasculitis syndrome associatedwith the presence of anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmicantibodies (ANCA) have also been received.Manifestations of ANCA-positive vasculitis may includerapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (crescentic andpauci-immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis),sometimes leading to acute renal failure; pulmonaryinfiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage; skin ulcers; andleucocytoclastic vasculitis. Minor adverse reactionsinclude skin rash, urticaria, Minor adverse reactions include skin rash, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, arthralgia, paresthesias, loss of taste, taste perversion, abnormal Ioss of hair, myalgia, headache, pruritus, drowsiness, neuritis, edema, vertigo, skin pigmentation, jaundice, sialadenopathy, lymphadenopathy, vasculitis, glomerulonephritis, and taste perversion. It should be noted that about 10% of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have leukopenia (white blood cell count of less than 4,000/mm3), often with relative granulopenia. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001 or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Major adverse reactions (much less common than the minor adverse reactions) include liver injury resulting in hepatitis, liver failure, a need for liver transplantation or death. Inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis, granulopenia, and thrombocytopenia), aplastic anemia, drug fever, a lupus-like syndrome (including splenomegaly and vasculitis), hepatitis, periartentis, and hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding have been reported. Nephritis, glomerulonephritis, interstitial pneumonitis, exfoliative dermatitis, and erythema nodosum have been reported. Reports of a vasculitis syndrome associated with the presence of anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) have also been received. Manifestations of ANCA-positive vasculitis may include rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (crescentic and pauci-immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis), sometimes leading to acute renal failure; pulmonary infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage; skin ulcers; and leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Minor adverse reactions include skin rash, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, arthralgia, paresthesias, loss of taste, taste perversion, abnormal Ioss of hair, myalgia, headache, pruritus, drowsiness, neuritis, edema, vertigo, skin pigmentation, jaundice, sialadenopathy, and lymphadenopathy. It should be noted that about 10% of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have leukopenia (white blood cell count of less than 4,000/mm3), often with relative granulopenia. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001 or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Major adverse reactions (much less common than the minor adverse reactions) include liver injury resulting in hepatitis, liver failure, a need for liver transplantation or death. Inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis, granulopenia, and thrombocytopenia), aplastic anemia, drug fever, a lupus-like syndrome (including splenomegaly and vasculitis), hepatitis, periartentis, and hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding have been reported. Nephritis, glomerulonephritis, interstitial pneumonitis, exfoliative dermatitis, and erythema nodosum have been reported. Reports of a vasculitis syndrome associated with the presence of anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) have also been received. Manifestations of ANCA-positive vasculitis may include rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (crescentic and pauci-immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis), sometimes leading to acute renal failure; pulmonary infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage; skin ulcers; and leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Minor adverse reactions include skin rash, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, arthralgia, paresthesias, loss of taste, taste perversion, abnormal Ioss of hair, myalgia, headache, pruritus, drowsiness, neuritis, edema, vertigo, skin pigmentation, jaundice, sialadenopathy, and lymphadenopathy. It should be noted that about 10% of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have leukopenia (white blood cell count of less than 4,000/mm3), often with relative granulopenia. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001 or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Major adverse reactions (much less common than the minor adverse reactions) include liver injury resulting in hepatitis, liver failure, a need for liver transplantation or death. Inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis, granulopenia, and thrombocytopenia), aplastic anemia, drug fever, a lupus-like syndrome (including splenomegaly and vasculitis), hepatitis, periarteritis, and hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding have been reported. Nephritis, glomerulonephritis, interstitial pneumonitis, exfoliative dermatitis, and erythema nodosum have been reported. Reports of a vasculitis syndrome associated with the presence of anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) have also been received. Manifestations of ANCA-positive vasculitis may include rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (crescentic and pauci-immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis), sometimes leading to acute renal failure; pulmonary infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage; skin ulcers; and leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Minor adverse reactions include skin rash, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, arthralgia, paresthesias, loss of taste, taste perversion, abnormal loss of hair, myalgia, headache, pruritus, drowsiness, neuritis, edema, vertigo, skin pigmentation, jaundice, sialadenopathy, and lymphadenopathy. It should be noted that about 10% of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have leukopenia (white blood cell count of less than 4,000/mm3 ), often with relative granulopenia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with the use of propylthiouracil. Because these events generally come from voluntary reporting from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a casual relationship to drug exposure. Severe adverse reactions include liver injury presenting as hepatitis, liver failure necessitating liver transplantation or resulting in death. Inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis, granulopenia, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenia), drug fever, a lupus-like syndrome (including splenomegaly and vasculitis), periarteritis, hypoprothrombinemia, and bleeding have been reported. Nephritis, glomerulonephritis, interstitial pneumonitis, exfoliative dermatitis, and erythema nodosum have also been reported. There are reports of a vasculitis syndrome associated with the presence of anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). Manifestations of ANCA-positive vasculitis may include rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (crescentric and pauci-immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis), sometimes leading to acute renal failure; pulmonary infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage; skin ulcers; and leukocytoclastic vasculitis. There have been rare reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., Stevens Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis) in patients treated with propylthiouracil. Other adverse reactions include skin rash, uticaria, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, arthralgia, paresthesias, loss of taste, taste perversion, abnormal loss of hair, myalgia, headache, pruritus, drowsiness, neuritis, edema, vertigo, skin pigmentation, jaundice, sialadenopathy, and lymphadenopathy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with the use of propylthiouracil. Because these events generally come from voluntary reporting from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a casual relationship to drug exposure. Severe adverse reactions include liver injury presenting as hepatitis, liver failure necessitating liver transplantation or resulting in death. Inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis, granulopenia, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenia), drug fever, a lupus-like syndrome (including splenomegaly and vasculitis), periarteritis, hypoprothrombinemia, and bleeding have been reported. Nephritis, glomerulonephritis, interstitial pneumonitis, exfoliative dermatitis, and erythema nodosum have also been reported. There are reports of a vasculitis syndrome associated with the presence of antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). Manifestations of ANCA-positive vasculitis may include rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (crescentric and pauci-immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis), sometimes leading to acute renal failure; pulmonary infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage; skin ulcers; and leukocytoclastic vasculitis. There have been rare reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis) in patients treated with propylthiouracil. Other adverse reactions include skin rash, uticaria, nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, arthralgia, paresthesias, loss of taste, taste perversion, abnormal loss of hair, myalgia, headache, pruritus, drowsiness , neuritis, edema, vertigo, skin pigmentation, jaundice, sialadenopathy, and lymphadenopathy."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants (oral) Due to the potential inhibition of vitamin K activity by propylthiouracil, the activity of oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) may be increased; additional monitoring of PT/INR should be considered, especially before surgical procedures. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. A reduced dose of beta-adrenergic blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient becomes euthyroid. Digitalis Glycosides Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dosage of digitalis glycosides may be needed. Theophylline Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Laboratory animals treated with propylthiouracil for > 1 year have demonstrated thyroid hyperplasia and carcinoma formation1. Such animal findings are seen with continuous suppression of thyroid function by sufficient doses of a variety of antithyroid agents, as well as in dietary iodine deficiency, subtotal thyroidectomy, and implantation of autonomous thyrotropic hormone - secreting pituitary tumors. Pituitary adenomas have also been described. Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D. SEE WARNINGS. Nursing Mothers Propylthiouracil is transferred to breasdt milk to a small extent and therefore likely results in clinically insignificant doses to the suckling infant. One one study, nine lactating women were administered 400 mg of propylthiouracil by mouth. The mean amount of propylthiouracil excreted during 4 hours after drug administration was 0.025% of the administered dose. Pediatric Use Post-marketing reports of severe liver injury including hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation or resulting in death have been reported in the pediatric population. No such reports have been observed with methimazole. As such, propylthiouracil is not recommended for use in the pediatric population except in rare instances in which methimazole is not well-tolerated and surgery or radioactive iodine therapy are not appropriate. When used in children, parents and patients should be informed of the risk of liver failure. If patients taking propylthiouracil develop tiredness, nausea, anorexia, fever, pharyngitis, or malaise, propylthiouracil should be discontinued immediately by the patient, a physician should be contacted, and a white blood cell count, liver function tests, and transaminase levels obtained."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants (oral): Due to the potential inhibition of vitamin K activity by propylthiouracil, the activity of oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) may be increased; additional monitoring of PT/INR should be considered, especially before surgical procedures. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents: Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. A reduced dose of beta-adrenergic blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient becomes euthyroid. Digitalis glycosides: Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of digitalis glycosides may be needed. Theophylline: Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants (Oral): Due to the potential inhibition of vitamin K activity by propylthiouracil, the activity of oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) may be increased; additional monitoring of PT/INR should be considered, especially before surgical procedures. Beta-adrenergic Blocking Agents: Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. A reduced dose of beta-adrenergic blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient becomes euthyroid. Digitalis Glycosides: Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of digitalis glycosides may be needed. Theophylline: Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed."$$
"Drug Interactions Anticoagulants (Oral): The activity of anticoagulants may be potentiated by anti-vitamin-K activity attributed to propylthiouracil. \\316\\262-Adrenergic Blocking Agents: Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. A dose reduction of beta-adrenergic blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient becomes euthyroid. Digitalis Glycosides: Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dosage of digitalis glycosides may be required. Theophylline: Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Beta-adrenergic Blocking Agents: Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. A reduced dose of beta-adrenergic blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient becomes euthyroid. Digitalis Glycosides: Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of digitalis glycosides may be needed. Theophylline: Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed."$$
