"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypoglycemia: Administer during or after feeding. Do not use in patients who are not able to feed or are vomiting (4, 5.1, 6, 10, 17) Bradycardia and hypotension (4, 5.2, 17) Bronchospasm: Avoid use in patients with asthma or lower respiratory infection (4, 5.3, 6, 10, 17) Increased risk of stroke in PHACE syndrome (5.5) 5.1 Hypoglycemia HEMANGEOL prevents the response of endogenous catecholamines to correct hypoglycemia and masks the adrenergic warning signs of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia, palpitations and sweating. HEMANGEOL can cause hypoglycemia in children, especially when they are not feeding regularly or are vomiting; withhold the dose under these conditions. Hypoglycemia may present in the form of seizures, lethargy, or coma. If a child has clinical signs of hypoglycemia, discontinue HEMANGEOL and call their health care provider immediately or take the child to the emergency room. Concomitant treatment with corticosteroids may increase the risk of hypoglycemia [ see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.2 Bradycardia and Hypotension HEMANGEOL may cause or worsen bradycardia or hypotension. In the studies of HEMANGEOL for infantile hemangioma the mean decrease in heart rate was about 7 bpm with little effect on blood pressure. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure after treatment initiation or increase in dose. Discontinue treatment if severe (<80 beats per minute) or symptomatic bradycardia or hypotension (systolic blood pressure <50 mmHg) occurs. 5.3 Bronchospasm HEMANGEOL can cause bronchospasm; do not use in patients with asthma or a history of bronchospasm. Interrupt treatment in the event of a lower respiratory tract infection associated with dyspnea and wheezing. 5.4 Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation supports circulatory function in patients with congestive heart failure, beta blockade may precipitate more severe failure. 5.5 Increased Risk of Stroke in PHACE Syndrome By dropping blood pressure, HEMANGEOL may increase the risk of stroke in PHACE syndrome patients with severe cerebrovascular anomalies. Investigate infants with large facial infantile hemangioma for potential arteriopathy associated with PHACE syndrome prior to HEMANGEOL therapy. 5.6 Hypersensitivity Beta-blockers will interfere with epinephrine used to treat serious anaphylaxis."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Hypoglycemia and related events, like hypoglycemic seizure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Bronchospasm [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. The most common adverse reactions to HEMANGEOL (occurring >= 10% of patients) were sleep disorders, aggravated respiratory tract infections, diarrhea, and vomiting. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pierre Fabre Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-855-PFPHARM (737-4276) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Clinical Trials Experience with HEMANGEOL in Infants with proliferating infantile hemangioma In clinical trials for proliferating infantile hemangioma, the most frequently reported adverse reactions (>10%) in infants treated with HEMANGEOL were sleep disorders, aggravated respiratory tract infections such as bronchitis and bronchiolitis associated with cough and fever, diarrhea, and vomiting. Adverse reactions led to treatment discontinuation in fewer than 2% of treated patients. Overall, 479 patients in the pooled safety population were exposed to study drug in the clinical study program (456 in placebo-controlled trials). A total of 424 patients were treated with HEMANGEOL at doses 1.2 mg/kg/day or 3.4 mg/kg/day for 3 or 6 months. Of these, 63% of patients were aged 91-150 days and 37% were aged 35-90 days at randomization. The following table lists according to the dosage the most common adverse reactions (treatment-emergent adverse events with an incidence at least 3% greater on one of the two doses than on placebo). Table 2. Treatment-emergent adverse events occurring at least 3% more often on HEMANGEOL than on placebo Reaction Placebo N=236 HEMANGEOL 1.2 mg/kg/day N=200 HEMANGEOL 3.4 mg/kg/day N=224 Sleep disorder 5.9% 17.5% 16.1% Bronchitis 4.7 8.0 13.4 Peripheral coldness 0.4 8.0 6.7 Agitation 2.1 8.5 4.5 Diarrhea 1.3 4.5 6.3 Somnolence 0.4 5.0 0.9 Nightmare 1.7 2.0 6.3 Irritability 1.3 5.5 1.3 Decreased appetite 0.4 2.5 3.6 Abdominal pain 0.4 3.5 0.4 The following adverse events have been observed during clinical studies, with an incidence of less than 1%: Cardiac disorders: Second degree atrioventricular heart block, in a patient with underlying conduction disorder, required definitive treatment discontinuation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ]. Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Urticaria, alopecia Investigations: Decreased blood glucose, decreased heart rate Compassionate Use Program More than 600 infants received HEMANGEOL in a compassionate use program (CUP). Mean age at treatment initiation was 3.6 months. Mean dose of HEMANGEOL was 2.2 mg/kg/day and mean treatment duration was 7.1 months. The adverse reactions reported in the CUP were similar to the ADRs observed during clinical trials but some were more severe. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of propranolol. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These adverse reactions are as follows: Blood and lymphatic system disorders: Agranulocytosis Psychiatric disorders: Hallucination Skin and subcutaneous tissues disorders: Purpura"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In the absence of specific studies in children, the drug interactions with propranolol are those known in adults. Consider both the infant's medications and those of a nursing mother. Pharmacokinetic drug interactions Impact of co-administered drugs on propranolol: CYP2D6, CYP1A2 or CYP2C19 inhibitors increase propranolol plasma concentration. CYP1A2 inducers (phenytoin, phenobarbital) or CYP2C19 inducers (rifampin) decrease propranolol plasma concentration when co-administered. Pharmacodynamic drug interactions Corticosteroids: Patients on corticosteroids may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia because of loss of the counter-regulatory cortisol response; monitor patients for signs of hypoglycemia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In a series of 225 patients, there were 6 deaths (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Cardiovascular events (hypotension, congestive heart failure, bradycardia, and heart block) were the most common. The only other event reported by more than one patient was nausea. Other adverse events for intravenous propranolol, reported during postmarketing surveillance include cardiac arrest, dyspnea, and cutaneous ulcers. The following adverse events have been reported with use of formulations of sustained- or immediate-release oral propranolol and may be expected with intravenous propranolol. Cardiovascular Bradycardia; congestive heart failure; intensification of AV block; hypotension; paresthesia of hands; thrombocytopenic purpura; arterial insufficiency, usually of the Raynaud type. Central Nervous System Lightheadedness; mental depression manifested by insomnia; lassitude, weakness, fatigue; reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; visual disturbances; hallucinations, vivid dreams, an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. For immediate-release formulations, fatigue, lethargy, and vivid dreams appear dose-related. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, constipation, mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. Allergic Pharyngitis and agranulocytosis, erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat, laryngospasm, and respiratory distress. Respiratory Bronchospasm. Hematologic Agranulocytosis, nonthrombo\\302\\255cytopenic purpura, thrombocytopenic purpura. Autoimmune In extremely rare instances, systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Miscellaneous Alopecia, LE-like reactions, psoriasiform rashes, dry eyes, male impotence, and Peyronie's disease have been reported rarely. Oculomucocutaneous reactions involving the skin, serous membranes and conjunctivae reported for a beta-blocker (practolol) have not been associated with propranolol.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In a series of 225 patients, there were 6 deaths (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Cardiovascular events (hypotension, congestive heart failure, bradycardia, and heart block) were the most common. The only other event reported by more than one patient was nausea. Other adverse events for intravenous propranolol, reported during post-marketing surveillance include cardiac arrest, dyspnea, and cutaneous ulcers. The following adverse events have been reported with use of formulations of sustained- or immediate-release oral propranolol and may be expected with intravenous propranolol. Cardiovascular Bradycardia; congestive heart failure; intensification of AV block; hypotension; paresthesia of hands; thrombocytopenic purpura; arterial insufficiency, usually of the Raynaud type. Central Nervous System Light-headedness; mental depression manifested by insomnia, lassitude, weakness, fatigue; reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; visual disturbances; hallucinations; vivid dreams; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. For immediate-release formulations, fatigue, lethargy, and vivid dreams appear dose related. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, constipation, mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. Allergic Pharyngitis and agranulocytosis; erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat; laryngospasm, and respiratory distress. Respiratory Bronchospasm. Hematologic Agranulocytosis, nonthrombocytopenic purpura, thrombocytopenic purpura. Autoimmune In extremely rare instances, systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Miscellaneous Alopecia, LE-like reactions, psoriaform rashes, dry eyes, male impotence, and Peyronie's disease have been reported rarely. Oculomucocutaneous reactions involving the skin, serous membranes and conjunctivae reported for a beta-blocker (practolol) have not been associated with propranolol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In a series of 225 patients, there were 6 deaths (see CLINICAL STUDIES). Cardiovascular events (hypotension, congestive heart failure, bradycardia, and heart block) were the most common. The only other event reported by more than one patient was nausea. Other adverse events for intravenous propranolol, reported during post-marketing surveillance include cardiac arrest, dyspnea, and cutaneous ulcers. The following adverse events have been reported with use of formulations of sustained- or immediate-release oral propranolol and may be expected with intravenous propranolol. CardiovascularBradycardia; congestive heart failure; intensification of AV block; hypotension; paresthesia of hands; thrombocytopenic purpura; arterial insufficiency, usually of the Raynaud type. Central Nervous SystemLight-headedness; mental depression manifested by insomnia, lassitude, weakness, fatigue; reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; visual disturbances; hallucinations; vivid dreams; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. For immediate-release formulations, fatigue, lethargy, and vivid dreams appear dose related. GastrointestinalNausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, constipation, mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. AllergicPharyngitis and agranulocytosis; erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat; laryngospasm, and respiratory distress. RespiratoryBronchospasm. HematologicAgranulocytosis, nonthrombocytopenic purpura, thrombocytopenic purpura. AutoimmuneIn extremely rare instances, systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. MiscellaneousAlopecia, LE-like reactions, psoriaform rashes, dry eyes, male impotence, and Peyronie's disease have been reported rarely. Oculomucocutaneous reactions involving the skin, serous membranes and conjunctivae reported for a beta-blocker (practolol) have not been associated with propranolol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In a series of 225 patients, there were 6 deaths (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Cardiovascular events (hypotension, congestive heart failure, bradycardia, and heart block) were the most common. The only other event reported by more than one patient was nausea. Other adverse events for intravenous propranolol, reported during post-marketing surveillance include cardiac arrest, dyspnea, and cutaneous ulcers. The following adverse events have been reported with use of formulations of sustained- or immediate-release oral propranolol and may be expected with intravenous propranolol. Cardiovascular Bradycardia; congestive heart failure; intensification of AV block; hypotension; paresthesia of hands; thrombocytopenic purpura; arterial insufficiency, usually of the Raynaud type. Central Nervous System Light-headedness; mental depression manifested by insomnia, lassitude, weakness, fatigue; reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; visual disturbances; hallucinations; vivid dreams; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. For immediate-release formulations, fatigue, lethargy, and vivid dreams appear dose-related. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, constipation, mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. Allergic Pharyngitis and agranulocytosis; erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat; laryngospasm, and respiratory distress. Respiratory Bronchospasm. Hematologic Agranulocytosis, nonthrombocytopenic purpura, thrombocytopenic purpura. Autoimmune In extremely rare instances, systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Miscellaneous Alopecia, LE-like reactions, psoriaform rashes, dry eyes, male impotence, and Peyronie's disease have been reported rarely. Oculomucocutaneous reactions involving the skin, serous membranes and conjunctivae reported for a beta-blocker (practolol) have not been associated with propranolol. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact West-ward Pharmaceutical Corp. at 1-877-233-2001 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"Adverse Reactions In a series of 225 patients, there were 6 deaths (see CLINICAL STUDIES). Cardiovascular events (hypotension, congestive heart failure, bradycardia, and heart block) were the most common. The only other event reported by more than one patient was nausea. Other adverse events for intravenous propranolol reported during post-marketing surveillance include cardiac arrest, dyspnea, and cutaneous ulcers. The following adverse events have been reported with use of formulations of sustained- or immediate-release oral propranolol and may be expected with intravenous propranolol. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia; congestive heart failure; intensification of AV block; hypotension; paresthesia of hands; thrombocytopenic purpura; arterial insufficiency, usually of the Raynaud type. Central Nervous System: Lightheadedness; mental depression manifested by insomnia, lassitude, weakness, fatigue; reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; visual disturbances; hallucinations; vivid dreams; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. For immediate-release formulations, fatigue, lethargy, and vivid dreams appear doserelated. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, constipation, mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. Allergic: Pharyngitis and agranulocytosis; erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat; laryngospasm and respiratory distress. Respiratory: Bronchospasm. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis, nonthrombocytopenic purpura, thrombocytopenic purpura. Autoimmune: In extremely rare instances, systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Miscellaneous: Alopecia, LE-like reactions, psoriasiform rashes, dry eyes, male impotence, and Peyronie's disease have been reported rarely. Oculomucocutaneous reactions involving the skin, serous membranes and conjunctivae reported for a beta-blocker (practolol) have not been associated with propranolol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse events were observed and have been reported in patients using propranolol. Cardiovascular Bradycardia; congestive heart failure; intensification of AV block; hypotension; paresthesia of hands; thrombocytopenic purpura; arterial insufficiency, usually of the Raynaud type. Central Nervous System Light-headedness, mental depression manifested by insomnia, lassitude, weakness, fatigue; catatonia; visual disturbances; hallucinations; vivid dreams; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics. For immediate-release formulations, fatigue, lethargy, and vivid dreams appear dose-related. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, constipation, mesenteric arterial thrombosis, ischemic colitis. Allergic Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, pharyngitis and agranulocytosis; erythematous rash, fever combined with aching and sore throat; laryngospasm, and respiratory distress. Respiratory Bronchospasm. Hematologic Agranulocytosis, nonthrombocytopenic purpura, thrombocytopenic purpura. Autoimmune Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Skin and Mucous Membranes Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, dry eyes, exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, urticaria, alopecia, SLE-like reactions, and psoriasiform rashes. Oculomucocutaneous syndrome involving the skin, serous membranes and conjunctivae reported for a beta-blocker (practolol) have not been associated with propranolol. Genitourinary Male impotence; Peyronie's disease."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed, but there is not enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency. Within each category, adverse reactions are listed in decreasing order of severity. Although many side effects are mild and transient, some require discontinuation of therapy. Propranolol Hydrochloride Cardiovascular: Congestive heart failure; hypotension; intensification of AV block; bradycardia; thrombocytopenic purpura; arterial insufficiency, usually of the Raynaud type; paresthesia of hands. Central Nervous System: Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia; mental depression manifested by insomnia, lassitude, weakness, fatigue; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place, short-term memory loss, emotional lability, slightly clouded sensorium, decreased performance on neuropsychometrics; hallucinations; visual disturbances; vivid dreams; light-headedness. Total daily doses above 160 mg (when administered as divided doses of greater than 80 mg each) may be associated with an increased incidence of fatigue, lethargy, and vivid dreams. Gastrointestinal: Mesenteric arterial thrombosis; ischemic colitis; nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, constipation. Allergic: Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions; laryngospasm and respiratory distress; pharyngitis and agranulocytosis; fever combined with aching and sore throat; erythematous rash. Respiratory: Bronchospasm. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis; non-thrombocytopenic purpura; thrombocytopenic purpura. Autoimmune: In extremely rare instances, systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Miscellaneous: Male impotence. Alopecia, LE-like reactions, psoriasiform rashes, dry eyes, and Peyronie's disease have been reported rarely. Oculomucocutaneous reactions involving the skin, serous membranes, and conjunctivae reported for a beta-blocker (practolol) have not been associated with propranolol. Skin: Stevens-Johnson Syndrome; toxic epidermal necrolysis; exfoliative dermatitis; erythema multiforme; urticaria. Hydrochlorothiazide Cardiovascular: Orthostatic hypotension (may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates or narcotics). Central Nervous System: Dizziness, vertigo, headache, xanthopsia, paresthesias. Gastrointestinal: Pancreatitis; jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice); sialadenitis; anorexia, nausea, vomiting, gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation. Hypersensitivity: Anaphylactic reactions; necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis); respiratory distress including pneumonitis; fever; urticaria, rash, purpura, photosensitivity. Hematologic: Aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia. Skin: Erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis. Miscellaneous: Hyperglycemia, glycosuria; hyperuricemia; muscle spasm; weakness; restlessness; transient blurred vision. Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe, thiazide dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn."$$
"Drug/Drug Interactions Propranolol Hydrochloride Patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs such as reserpine should be closely observed if propranolol hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide is administered. The added catecholamine-blocking action may produce an excessive reduction of resting sympathetic nervous activity, which may result in hypotension, marked bradycardia, vertigo, syncopal attacks, or orthostatic hypotension. Caution should be exercised when patients receiving a beta-blocker are administered a calcium-channel blocking drug, especially intravenous verapamil, for both agents may depress myocardial contractility or atrioventricular conduction. On rare occasions, the concomitant intravenous use of a beta-blocker and verapamil has resulted in serious adverse reactions, especially in patients with severe cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, or recent myocardial infarction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Blunting of the antihypertensive effect of beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been reported. Hypotension and cardiac arrest have been reported with the concomitant use of propranolol and haloperidol. Aluminum hydroxide gel greatly reduces intestinal absorption of propranolol. Alcohol, when used concomitantly with propranolol, may increase plasma levels of propranolol. Phenytoin, phenobarbitone, and rifampin accelerate propranolol clearance. Chlorpromazine, when used concomitantly with propranolol, results in increased plasma levels of both drugs. Antipyrine and lidocaine have reduced clearance when used concomitantly with propranolol. Thyroxine may result in a lower than expected T3 concentration when used concomitantly with propranolol. Cimetidine decreases the hepatic metabolism of propranolol, delaying elimination and increasing blood levels. Theophylline clearance is reduced when used concomitantly with propranolol. Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazide drugs may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use. Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased, decreased, or unchanged. Hypokalemia may develop during concomitant use of corticosteroids or ACTH."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when propranolol is administered with drugs that have an effect on CYP2D6, 1A2, or 2C19 metabolic pathways. Co-administration of such drugs with propranolol may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions and changes in its efficacy and/or toxicity (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions ). Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics Propafenone has negative inotropic and beta-blocking properties that can be additive to those of propranolol. Quinidine increases the concentration of propranolol and produces a greater degree of clinical beta-blockade and may cause postural hypotension. Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects and has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with propranolol. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with propranolol. The clearance of lidocaine is reduced when administered with propranolol. Lidocaine toxicity has been reported following coadministration with propranolol. Caution should be exercised when administering propranolol with drugs that slow A-V nodal conduction, e.g. digitalis, lidocaine and calcium channel blockers. Calcium Channel Blockers Caution should be exercised when patients receiving a beta-blocker are administered a calcium-channel-blocking drug with negative inotropic and/or chronotropic effects. Both agents may depress myocardial contractility or atrioventricular conduction. There have been reports of significant bradycardia, heart failure, and cardiovascular collapse with concurrent use of verapamil and beta-blockers. Co-administration of propranolol and diltiazem in patients with cardiac disease has been associated with bradycardia, hypotension, high degree heart block, and heart failure. ACE Inhibitors When combined with beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors can cause hypotension, particularly in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. ACE inhibitors have been reported to increase bronchial hyperreactivity when administered with propranolol. The antihypertensive effects of clonidine may be antagonized by beta-blockers. Propranolol should be administered cautiously to patients withdrawing from clonidine. Alpha-blockers Prazosin has been associated with prolongation of first dose hypotension in the presence of beta-blockers. Postural hypotension has been reported in patients taking both beta-blockers and terazosin or doxazosin. Reserpine Patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine, with propranolol should be closely observed for excess reduction of resting sympathetic nervous activity, which may result in hypotension, marked bradycardia, vertigo, syncopal attacks, or orthostatic hypotension. Administration of reserpine with propranolol may also potentiate depression. Inotropic Agents Patients on long-term therapy with propranolol may experience uncontrolled hypertension if administered epinephrine as a consequence of unopposed alpha-receptor stimulation. Epinephrine is therefore not indicated in the treatment of propranolol overdose (see OVERDOSAGE ). Isoproterenol and Dobutamine Propranolol is a competitive inhibitor of beta-receptor agonists, and its effects can be reversed by administration of such agents, e.g., dobutamine or isoproterenol. Also, propranolol may reduce sensitivity to dobutamine stress echocardiography in patients undergoing evaluation for myocardial ischemia. Non-Cardiovascular Drugs Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) have been reported to blunt the antihypertensive effect of beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agents. Administration of indomethacin with propranolol may reduce the efficacy of propranolol in reducing blood pressure and heart rate. Antidepressants The hypotensive effects of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may be exacerbated when administered with beta-blockers by interfering with the beta blocking activity of propranolol. Anesthetic Agents Methoxyflurane and trichloroethylene may depress myocardial contractility when administered with propranolol. Warfarin Administration of propranolol with warfarin increases the concentration of warfarin. Therefore, the prothrombin time should be monitored. Neuroleptic Drugs Hypotension and cardiac arrest have been reported with the concomitant use of propranolol and haloperidol. Thyroxine Thyroxine may result in a lower than expected T3 concentration when used concomitantly with propranolol."$$
"Drug Interactions Interactions with Substrates, Inhibitors or Inducers of Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Because propranolol's metabolism involves multiple pathways in the cytochrome P-450 system (CYP2D6, 1A2, 2C19), administration of propranolol with drugs that are metabolized by, or affect the activity (induction or inhibition) of one or more of these pathways may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Blood levels of propranolol may be increased by administration of propranolol with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as amiodarone, cimetidine, delavirdine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, quinidine, and ritonavir. No interactions were observed with either ranitidine or lansoprazole. Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP1A2 Blood levels of propranolol may be increased by administration of propranolol with substrates or inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as imipramine, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, fluvoxamine, isoniazid, ritonavir, theophylline, zileuton, zolmitriptan, and rizatriptan. Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2C19 Blood levels of propranolol may be increased by administration of propranolol with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2C19, such as fluconazole, cimetidine, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, teniposide, and tolbutamide. No interaction was observed with omeprazole. Inducers of Hepatic Drug Metabolism Blood levels of propranolol may be decreased by administration of propranolol with inducers such as rifampin and ethanol. Cigarette smoking also induces hepatic metabolism and has been shown to increase up to 100% the clearance of propranolol, resulting in decreased plasma concentrations. Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics The AUC of propafenone is increased by more than 200% with co-administration of propranolol. The metabolism of propranolol is reduced by co-administration of quinidine, leading to a 2- to 3-fold increased blood concentrations and greater beta-blockade. The metabolism of lidocaine is inhibited by co-administration of propranolol, resulting in a 25% increase in lidocaine concentrations. Calcium Channel Blockers The mean Cmax and AUC of propranolol are increased respectively, by 50% and 30% by co-administration of nisoldipine and by 80% and 47%, by co-administration of nicardipine. The mean values of Cmax and AUC of nifedipine are increased by 64% and 79%, respectively, by co-administration of propranolol. Propranolol does not affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil and norverapamil. Verapamil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of propranolol. Non-Cardiovascular Drugs Migraine Drugs Administration of zolmitriptan or rizatriptan with propranolol resulted in increased concentrations of zolmitriptan (AUC increased by 56% and Cmax by 37%) or rizatriptan (the AUC and Cmax were increased by 67% and 75%, respectively). Theophylline Co-administration of theophylline with propranolol decreases theophylline clearance by 33% to 52%. Benzodiazepines Propranolol can inhibit the metabolism of diazepam, resulting in increased concentrations of diazepam and its metabolites. Diazepam does not alter the pharmacokinetics of propranolol. The pharmacokinetics of oxazepam, triazolam, lorazepam, and alprazolam are not affected by co-administration of propranolol. Neuroleptic Drugs Co-administration of propranolol at doses greater than or equal to 160 mg/day resulted in increased thioridazine plasma concentrations ranging from 50% to 370% and increased thioridazine metabolites concentrations ranging from 33% to 210%. Co-administration of chlorpromazine with propranolol resulted in increased plasma levels of both drugs (70% increase in propranolol concentrations). Anti-Ulcer Drugs Co-administration of propranolol with cimetidine, a non-specific CYP450 inhibitor, increased propranolol concentrations by about 40%. Co-administration with aluminum hydroxide gel (1200 mg) resulted in a 50% decrease in propranolol concentrations. Co-administration of metoclopramide with propranolol did not have a significant effect on propranolol's pharmacokinetics. Lipid Lowering Drugs Co-administration of cholesteramine or colestipol with propranolol resulted in up to 50% decrease in propranolol concentrations. Co-administration of propranolol with lovastatin or pravastatin decreased 20% to 25% the AUC of both, but did not alter their pharmacodynamics. Propranolol did not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of fluvastatin. Warfarin Concomitant administration of propranolol and warfarin has been shown to increase warfarin bioavailability and increase prothrombin time.",$$
"Drug Interactions Interactions with Substrates, Inhibitors or Inducers of Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Because propranolol's metabolism involves multiple pathways in the cytochrome P-450 system (CYP2D6, 1A2, 2C19), co-administration with drugs that are metabolized by, or effect the activity (induction or inhibition) of one or more of these pathways may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions). Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Blood levels and/or toxicity of propranolol may be increased by co-administration with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as amiodarone, cimetidine, delavudin, fluoxetine, paroxetine, quinidine, and ritonavir. No interactions were observed with either ranitidine or lansoprazole. Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP1A2 Blood levels and/or toxicity of propranolol may be increased by co-administration with substrates or inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as imipramine, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, fluvoxamine, isoniazid, ritonavir, theophylline, zileuton, zolmitriptan, and rizatriptan. Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2C19 Blood levels and/or toxicity of propranolol may be increased by co-administration with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2C19, such as fluconazole, cimetidine, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, tenioposide, and tolbutamide. No interaction was observed with omeprazole. Inducers of Hepatic Drug Metabolism Blood levels of propranolol may be decreased by co-administration with inducers such as rifampin, ethanol, phenytoin, and phenobarbital. Cigarette smoking also induces hepatic metabolism and has been shown to increase up to 77% the clearance of propranolol, resulting in decreased plasma concentrations. Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics The AUC of propafenone is increased by more than 200% by co-administration of propranolol. The metabolism of propranolol is reduced by co-administration of quinidine, leading to a two to three fold increased blood concentration and greater degrees of clinical beta-blockade. The metabolism of lidocaine is inhibited by co-administration of propranolol, resulting in a 25% increase in lidocaine concentrations. Calcium Channel Blockers The mean Cmax and AUC of propranolol are increased, respectively, by 50% and 30% by co-administration of nisoldipine and by 80% and 47%, by co-administration of nicardipine. The mean Cmax and AUC of nifedipine are increased by 64% and 79%, respectively, by co-administration of propranolol. Propranolol does not affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil and norverapamil. Verapamil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of propranolol. Non-Cardiovascular Drugs Migraine Drugs Administration of zolmitriptan or rizatriptan with propranolol resulted in increased concentrations of zolmitriptan (AUC increased by 56% and Cmax by 37%) or rizatriptan (the AUC and Cmax were increased by 67% and 75%, respectively). Theophylline Co-administration of theophylline with propranolol decreases theophylline oral clearance by 30% to 52%. Benzodiazepines Propranolol can inhibit the metabolism of diazepam, resulting in increased concentrations of diazepam and its metabolites. Diazepam does not alter the pharmacokinetics of propranolol. The pharmacokinetics of oxazepam, triazolam, lorazepam, and alprazolam are not affected by co-administration of propranolol. Neuroleptic Drugs Co-administration of long-acting propranolol at doses greater than or equal to 160 mg/day resulted in increased thioridazine plasma concentrations ranging from 55% to 369% and increased thioridazine metabolite (mesoridazine) concentrations ranging from 33% to 209%. Co-administration of chlorpromazine with propranolol resulted in a 70% increase in propranolol plasma level. Anti-Ulcer Drugs Co-administration of propranolol with cimetidine, a non-specific CYP450 inhibitor, increased propranolol AUC and Cmax by 46% and 35%, respectively. Co-administration with aluminum hydroxide gel (1200 mg) may result in a decrease in propranolol concentrations. Co-administration of metoclopramide with the long-acting propranolol did not have a significant effect on propranolol's pharmacokinetics. Lipid Lowering Drugs Co-administration of cholestyramine or colestipol with propranolol resulted in up to 50% decrease in propranolol concentrations. Co-administration of propranolol with lovastatin or pravastatin, decreased 18% to 23% the AUC of both, but did not alter their pharmacodynamics. Propranolol did not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of fluvastatin. Warfarin Concomitant administration of propranolol and warfarin has been shown to increase warfarin bioavailability and increase prothrombin time. Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol may increase plasma levels of propranolol.",$$
