"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thrombocytopenia or other hypersensitivity reactions: Discontinue if occurs. (5.1) Hepatitis: Discontinue if occurs. (5.2) QT Prolongation: Monitor ECG if concomitant use of drugs that prolong QT interval cannot be avoided or if concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors used. (5.3). Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) or left ventricular dysfunction (LVD): Monitor ECG in patients with LVH or LVD. (5.3) CYP2D6 substrate: NUEDEXTA inhibits CYP2D6. Accumulation of parent drug and/or failure of metabolite formation may decrease safety and/or efficacy of concomitant CYP2D6 metabolized drugs. Adjust dose of CYP2D6 substrate or use alternative treatment when clinically indicated. (5.4, 12.4) Dizziness: Take precautions to reduce falls. (5.5) Serotonin syndrome: Use of NUEDEXTA with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRIs) or tricyclic antidepressants increases the risk. Discontinue if occurs. (5.6, 7.4) Anticholinergic effects of quinidine: Monitor for worsening in myasthenia gravis and other sensitive conditions. (5.7) 5.1 Thrombocytopenia and Other Hypersensitivity Reactions Quinidine can cause immune-mediated thrombocytopenia that can be severe or fatal. Non-specific symptoms, such as lightheadedness, chills, fever, nausea, and vomiting, can precede or occur with thrombocytopenia. NUEDEXTA should be discontinued immediately if thrombocytopenia occurs, unless the thrombocytopenia is clearly not drug-related, as continued use increases the risk for fatal hemorrhage. Likewise, NUEDEXTA should not be restarted in sensitized patients, because more rapid and more severe thrombocytopenia than the original episode can occur. NUEDEXTA should not be used if immune-mediated thrombocytopenia from structurally related drugs including quinine and mefloquine is suspected, as cross-sensitivity can occur. Quinidine-associated thrombocytopenia usually, but not always, resolves within a few days of discontinuation of the sensitizing drug. Quinidine has also been associated with a lupus-like syndrome involving polyarthritis, sometimes with a positive antinuclear antibody test. Other associations include rash, bronchospasm, lymphadenopathy, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, uveitis, angioedema, agranulocytosis, the sicca syndrome, myalgia, elevation in serum levels of skeletal-muscle enzymes, and pneumonitis. 5.2 Hepatotoxicity Hepatitis, including granulomatous hepatitis, has been reported in patients receiving quinidine, generally during the first few weeks of therapy. Fever may be a presenting symptom, and thrombocytopenia or other signs of hypersensitivity may also occur. Most cases remit when quinidine is withdrawn. 5.3 Cardiac Effects NUEDEXTA causes dose-dependent QTc prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. QT prolongation can cause torsades de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia, with the risk increasing as the degree of prolongation increases. When initiating NUEDEXTA in patients at risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes, electrocardiographic (ECG) evaluation of QT interval should be conducted at baseline and 3-4 hours after the first dose. This includes patients concomitantly taking/initiating drugs that prolong the QT interval or that are strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, and patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) or left ventricular dysfunction (LVD). LVH and LVD are more likely to be present in patients with chronic hypertension, known coronary artery disease, or history of stroke. LVH and LVD can be diagnosed utilizing echocardiography or another suitable cardiac imaging modality. Strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors include, but are not limited to, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, amprenavir, aprepitant, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, grapefruit juice, and verapamil. Reevaluate ECG if risk factors for arrhythmia change during the course of treatment with NUEDEXTA. Risk factors include concomitant use of drugs associated with QT prolongation, electrolyte abnormality (hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia), bradycardia, and family history of QT abnormality. Hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia should be corrected prior to initiation of therapy with NUEDEXTA, and should be monitored during treatment. If patients taking NUEDEXTA experience symptoms that could indicate the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias, e.g., syncope or palpitations, NUEDEXTA should be discontinued and the patient further evaluated. 5.4 Concomitant u se of CYP2D6 S ubstrate s The quinidine in NUEDEXTA inhibits CYP2D6 in patients in whom CYP2D6 is not otherwise genetically absent or its activity otherwise pharmacologically inhibited [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), (12.5)]. Because of this effect on CYP2D6, accumulation of parent drug and/or failure of active metabolite formation may decrease the safety and/or the efficacy of drugs used concomitantly with NUEDEXTA that are metabolized by CYP2D6 [see Drug Interactions ( 7.5 )]. 5.5 Dizziness NUEDEXTA may cause dizziness [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Precautions to reduce the risk of falls should be taken, particularly for patients with motor impairment affecting gait or a history of falls. In a controlled trial of NUEDEXTA, 10% of patients on NUEDEXTA and 5% on placebo experienced dizziness. 5.6 Serotonin Syndrome When used with SSRIs (such as fluoxetine) or tricyclic antidepressants (such as clomipramine and imipramine), NUEDEXTA may cause "serotonin syndrome", with changes including altered mental status, hypertension, restlessness, myoclonus, hyperthermia, hyperreflexia, diaphoresis, shivering, and tremor [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Overdosage ( 10 )]. 5.7 Anticholinergic E ffects of Q uinidine Monitor for worsening clinical condition in myasthenia gravis and other conditions that may be adversely affected by anticholinergic effects. 5.8 CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers The quinidine component of NUEDEXTA is intended to inhibit CYP2D6 so that higher exposure to dextromethorphan can be achieved compared to when dextromethorphan is given alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), (12.5)]. Approximately 7-10% of Caucasians and 3-8% of African Americans lack the capacity to metabolize CYP2D6 substrates and are classified as poor metabolizers (PMs). The quinidine component of NUEDEXTA is not expected to contribute to the effectiveness of NUEDEXTA in PMs, but adverse events of the quinidine are still possible. In those patients who may be at risk of significant toxicity due to quinidine, genotyping to determine if they are PMs should be considered prior to making the decision to treat with NUEDEXTA."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS A total of 946 patients participated in four Phase 3 controlled and uncontrolled PBA studies and received at least one dose of the combination product of dextromethorphan hydrobromide/quinidine sulfate in various strengths at the recommended or higher than the recommended dose. Of those patients, 393 patients were exposed for at least 180 days and 294 patients were exposed for at least one year. Median exposure was 168 days. Controlled trials enrolled only patients with either ALS or MS. Uncontrolled studies enrolled 136 patients with PBA secondary to a wide variety of underlying neurological conditions including stroke (45 patients) and traumatic brain injury (23 patients). Consequently, patients with other underlying neurologic diseases may experience other adverse reactions not described below. The most common adverse reactions (incidence of >= 3% and two-fold greater than placebo) in patients taking NUEDEXTA are diarrhea, dizziness, cough, vomiting, asthenia, peripheral edema, urinary tract infection, influenza, increased gamma-glutamyltransferase, and flatulence. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Avanir Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-855-4NUEDEX (468-3339) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial s Experience A 12-week, placebo-controlled study evaluated NUEDEXTA (dextromethorphan hydrobromide 20 mg/quinidine sulfate 10 mg) (N=107) and a dextromethorphan hydrobromide 30 mg/ quinidine sulfate 10 mg combination (N=110) compared to placebo (N=109). Approximately 60% of patients had ALS and 40% had MS. Patients were 25 to 80 years of age, with a mean age of approximately 51 years. Three (3) ALS patients in each drug treatment arm and 1 ALS patient in the placebo arm died during the 12-week placebo-control period. All deaths were consistent with the natural progression of ALS. Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation The most commonly reported adverse reactions (incidence >= 2% and greater than placebo) that led to discontinuation with the dextromethorphan hydrobromide 20 mg/ quinidine sulfate 10 mg twice daily dose were muscle spasticity (3%), respiratory failure (1%), abdominal pain (2%), asthenia (2%), dizziness (2%), fall (1%), and muscle spasms (2%). Most Common Adverse Reactions Adverse drug reactions that occurred in >= 3% of patients receiving the dextromethorphan hydrobromide 20 mg/ quinidine sulfate 10 mg twice daily dose, and at an incidence of >= 2 times placebo in short-term clinical trials in ALS and MS are provided in Table 1. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Table 1: Adverse Drug Reactions with an Incidence of >= 3% of Patients and >= 2x Placebo in NUEDEXTA-treated Patients by System-Organ Class and Preferred Term NUEDEXTA N=107 % Placebo N=109 % Diarrhea 13 6 Dizziness 10 5 Cough 5 2 Vomiting 5 1 Asthenia 5 2 Peripheral edema 5 1 Urinary tract infection 4 1 Influenza 4 1 Increased gamma- glutamyltransferase 3 0 Flatulence 3 1 6.2 Long-Term Exposure with NUEDEXTA The experience in open-label clinical trials is consistent with the safety profile observed in the placebo-controlled clinical trials. 6.3 Safety Experience of Individual Components The following adverse reactions have been reported with the use of the individual components of NUEDEXTA, dextromethorphan and quinidine, from post-marketing experience. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dextromethorphan Drowsiness, dizziness, nervousness or restlessness, nausea, vomiting, and stomach pain. Quinidine Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose of several hundred milligrams. Cinchonism is characterized by nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, tinnitus, hearing loss, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, confusion, and delirium. Convulsions, apprehension, and ataxia have been reported with quinidine therapy, but it is not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion in patients being treated for cardiovascular indications. Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine, but these reactions appear to be extremely rare. Other adverse reactions occasionally reported with quinidine therapy include depression, mydriasis, disturbed color perception, night blindness, scotomata, optic neuritis, visual field loss, photosensitivity, keratopathy, and abnormalities of skin pigmentation."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Desipramine: Exposure increases 8-fold. Reduce desipramine dose and adjust based on clinical response. (7.5, 12.4) Paroxetine: Exposure increases 2-fold. Reduce paroxetine dose and adjust based on clinical response. (7.5, 12.4) Digoxin: Increased digoxin substrate plasma concentration may occur. (7.6) 7.1 MAOIs Do not use NUEDEXTA with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or in patients who have taken MAOIs within the preceding 14 days [see Contraindications ( 4.3 )]. 7.2 Drugs that Prolong QT and are Metabolized by CYP2D6 Do not use with drugs that both prolong QT interval and are metabolized by CYP2D6 (e.g., thioridazine or pimozide) [see Contraindications ( 4.4 )]. 7.3 Drugs that Prolong QT and Concomitant CYP3A4 Inhibitors Recommend ECG in patients taking drugs with NUEDEXTA that prolong the QT interval and in patients taking concomitant moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 7.4 SSRIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants Use of NUEDEXTA with SSRIs or tricyclic antidepressants increases the risk of \\342\\200\\230serotonin syndrome' [s ee Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. 7.5 CYP2D6 Substrate The co-administration of NUEDEXTA with drugs that undergo extensive CYP2D6 metabolism may result in altered drug effects, due to accumulation of parent drug and/or failure of metabolite formation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Therapy with medications that are primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 and that have a relatively narrow therapeutic index should be initiated at a low dose if a patient is receiving NUEDEXTA concurrently. If NUEDEXTA is added to the treatment regimen of a patient already receiving a drug primarily metabolized by CYP2D6, the need for a dose modification of the original medication should be considered. The extent to which CYP2D6 interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the pharmacokinetics of the substrate involved. In cases of prodrugs whose actions are mediated by the CYP2D6-produced metabolites (for example, codeine and hydrocodone, whose analgesic and antitussive effects appear to be mediated by morphine and hydromorphone, respectively), it may not be possible to achieve the desired clinical benefits in the presence of NUEDEXTA due to quinidine-mediated inhibition of CYP2D6. Consider use of alternative treatment with NUEDEXTA when clinically indicated. Drug interactions with desipramine and paroxetine have been studied in controlled clinical trials with a higher dose combination of dextromethorphan/quinidine (dextromethorphan hydrobromide 30 mg/quinidine sulfate 30 mg) than NUEDEXTA; study results are described below. No other drug interactions with CYP2D6 substrates have been systematically investigated, although concomitant use of such drugs was allowed in clinical trials with NUEDEXTA and in clinical trials with higher dose formulations of dextromethorphan/quinidine. Desipramine (CYP2D6 substrate): The tricyclic antidepressant desipramine is metabolized primarily by CYP2D6. A drug interaction study was conducted between a higher combination dose of dextromethorphan (dextromethorphan hydrobromide 30 mg/quinidine sulfate 30 mg) and desipramine 25 mg. The combination dose of dextromethorphan/quinidine increased steady state desipramine levels approximately 8-fold. If NUEDEXTA and desipramine are prescribed concomitantly, the initial dose of desipramine should be markedly reduced. The dose of desipramine can then be adjusted based on clinical response; however, a dose above 40 mg/day is not recommended. Paroxetine (CYP2D6 inhibitor and substrate) : When the combination dose of dextromethorphan hydrobromide 30 mg/quinidine sulfate 30 mg was added to paroxetine at steady state, paroxetine exposure (AUC0-24) increased by 1.7 fold and Cmax increased by 1.5 fold. Consideration should be given to initiating treatment with a lower dose of paroxetine if given with NUEDEXTA. The dose of paroxetine can then be adjusted based on clinical response; however, dosage above 35 mg/day is not recommended. 7.6 Digoxin Quinidine is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein. Concomitant administration of quinidine with digoxin, a P-glycoprotein substrate, results in serum digoxin levels that may be as much as doubled. Plasma digoxin concentrations should be closely monitored in patients taking NUEDEXTA concomitantly, and the digoxin dose reduced, as necessary. 7.7 Alcohol As with any other CNS drug, caution should be used when NUEDEXTA is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years, but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions. The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and heart-burn/esophagitis. In one study of 245 adult outpatients who received quinidine to suppress premature ventricular contractions, the incidences of reported adverse experiences were as shown in the table below. The most serious quinidine-associated adverse reactions are described above under Warnings. Adverse Experiences in a 245-Patient PVC Trial Incidence (%) diarrhea 85 (35) \\\\"upper gastrointestinal distress\\\\" 55 (22) lightheadedness 37 (15) headache 18 (7) fatigue 17 (7) palpitations 16 (7) angina-like pain 14 (6) weakness 13 (5) rash 11 (5) visual problems 8 (3) change in sleep habits 7 (3) tremor 6 (2) nervousness 5 (2) discoordination 3 (1) Intramuscular injections of quinidine gluconate are typically followed by moderate to severe local pain. Some patients will develop tender nodules at the site of injection that persist for several weeks. Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine, but they may also be the first signs of cinchonism, a syndrome that may also include tinnitus, reversible high-frequency hearing loss, deafness, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, headache, confusion, and delirium. Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose. A few cases of hepatotoxicity, including granulomatous hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving quinidine. All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy, and most (not all) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn. Autoimmune and inflammatory syndromes associated with quinidine therapy have included fever, urticaria, flushing, exfoliative rash, bronchospasm, pneumonitis, psoriasiform rash, pruritus and lymphadenopathy, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, thrombocytopenic purpura, uveitis, angioedema, agranulocytosis, the sicca syndrome, arthralgia, myalgia, elevation in serum levels of skeletal-muscle enzymes, and a disorder resembling systemic lupus erythematosus. Convulsions, apprehension, and ataxia have been reported, but it was not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion. There are many reports of syncope. Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine, but these reactions appear to be extremely rare. Other adverse reactions occasionally reported include depression, mydriasis, disturbed color perception, night blindness, scotomata, optic neuritis, visual field loss, photo-sensitivity, and abnormalities of pigmentation."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years, but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions. The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and heartburn/esophagitis. In one study of 245 adult outpatients who received quinidine to suppress premature ventricular contractions, the incidences of reported adverse experiences were as shown in the table below. The most serious quinidine-associated adverse reactions are described above under . WARNINGS Adverse Experiences in a 245-Patient PVC Trial Incidence (%) diarrhea 85 (35) "upper gastrointestinal distress" 55 (22) lightheadedness 37 (15) headache 18 (7) fatigue 17 (7) palpitations 16 (7) angina-like pain 14 (6) weakness 13 (5) rash 11 (5) visual problems 8 (3) change in sleep habits 7 (3) tremor 6 (2) nervousness 5 (2) discoordination 3 (1) Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine, but they may also be the first signs of , a syndrome that may also include tinnitus, reversible high-frequency hearing loss, deafness, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, headache, confusion, and delirium. Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose. cinchonism A few cases of , including granulomatous hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving quinidine. All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy, and most (not all) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn. hepatotoxicity associated with quinidine therapy have included fever, urticaria, flushing, exfoliative rash, bronchospasm, psoriaform rash, pruritus and lymphadenopathy, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, pneumonitis, thrombocytopenic purpura, uveitis, angioedema, agranulocytosis, the sicca syndrome, arthralgia, myalgia, elevation in serum levels of skeletal-muscle enzymes, and a disorder resembling systemic lupus erythematosus. Autoimmune and inflammatory syndromes Convulsions, apprehension, and ataxia have been reported, but it is not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion. There are many reports of syncope. Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine, but these reactions appear to be extremely rare. Other adverse reactions occasionally reported include depression, mydriasis, disturbed color perception, night blindness, scotomata, optic neuritis, visual field loss, photosensitivity, and abnormalities of pigmentation."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years, but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions. The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and heartburn/esophagitis. In one study of 245 adult outpatients who received quinidine to suppress premature ventricular contractions, the incidences of reported adverse experiences were as shown in the table below. The most serious quinidine-associated adverse reactions are described above under WARNINGS . Adverse Experiences in a 245-Patient PVC Trial Incidence (%) diarrhea 85 (35) "upper gastrointestinal distress" 55 (22) lightheadedness 37 (15) headache 18 (7) fatigue 17 (7) palpitations 16 (7) angina-like pain 14 (6) weakness 13 (5) rash 11 (5) visual problems 8 (3) change in sleep habits 7 (3) tremor 6 (2) nervousness 5 (2) discoordination 3 (1) Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine, but they may also be the first signs of cinchonism, a syndrome that may also include tinnitus, reversible high-frequency hearing loss, deafness, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, headache, confusion, and delirium. Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose. A few cases of hepatotoxicity, including granulomatous hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving quinidine. All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy, and most (not all) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn. Autoimmune and inflammatory syndromes associated with quinidine therapy have included fever, urticaria, flushing, exfoliative rash, bronchospasm, psoriaform rash, pruritus and lymphadenopathy, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, pneumonitis, thrombocytopenic purpura, uveitis, angioedema, agranulocytosis, the sicca syndrome, arthralgia, myalgia, elevation in serum levels of skeletal-muscle enzymes, and a disorder resembling systemic lupus erythematosus. Convulsions, apprehension, and ataxia have been reported, but it is not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion. There are many reports of syncope. Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine, but these reactions appear to be extremely rare. Other adverse reactions occasionally reported include depression, mydriasis, disturbed color perception, night blindness, scotomata, optic neuritis, visual field loss, photosensitivity, and abnormalities of pigmentation."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years, but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions. The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and heartburn/esophagitis. In one study of 245 adult outpatients who received quinidine to suppress premature ventricular contractions, the incidences of reported adverse experiences were as shown in the table below. The most serious quinidine-associated adverse reactions are described above under WARNINGS. Adverse Experiences in a 245-Patient PVC Trial Incidence (%) Incidence (%) diarrhea 85 (35) "upper gastrointestinal distress" 55 (22) lightheadedness 37 (15) headache 18 (7) fatigue 17 (7) palpitations 16 (7) angina-like pain 14 (6) weakness 13 (5) rash 11 (5) visual problems 8 (3) change in sleep habits 7 (3) tremor 6 (2) nervousness 5 (2) discoordination 3 (1) Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine, but they may also be the first signs of cinchonism , a syndrome that may also include tinnitus, reversible high-frequency hearing loss, deafness, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, headache, confusion, and delirium. Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose. A few cases of hepatotoxicity, including granulomatous hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving quinidine. All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy, and most (not all) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn. Autoimmune and inflammatory syndromes associated with quinidine therapy have included fever, urticaria, flushing, exfoliative rash, bronchospasm, psoriaform rash, pruritus and lymphadenopathy, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, pneumonitis, thrombocytopenic purpura, uveitis, angioedema, agranulocytosis, the sicca syndrome, arthralgia, myalgia, elevation in serum levels of skeletal-muscle enzymes, and a disorder resembling systemic lupus erythematosus. Convulsions, apprehension, and ataxia have been reported, but it is not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion. There are many reports of syncope. Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine, but these reactions appear to be extremely rare. Other adverse reactions occasionally reported include depression, mydriasis, disturbed color perception, night blindness, scotomata, optic neuritis, visual field loss, photosensitivity, and abnormalities of pigmentation."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years, but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions. The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and heartburn/esophagitis. In the reported study that was closest in character to the predominant approved use of quinidine gluconate, 86 adult outpatients with atrial fibrillation were followed for six months while they received slow-release quinidine bisulfate tablets, 600 mg (approximately 400 mg of quinidine base) twice daily. The incidences of adverse experiences reported more than once were as shown in the table below. The most serious quinidine-associated adverse reactions are described above under . WARNINGS ADVERSE EXPERIENCES REPORTED MORE THAN ONCE IN 86 PATIENTS WITH ATRIAL FIBRILLATION Incidence (%) diarrhea 21 (24)% fever 5 (6%) rash 5 (6%) arrhythmia 3 (3%) abnormal electrocardiogram 3 (3%) nausea/vomiting 3 (3%) dizziness 3 (3%) headache 3 (3%) asthenia 2 (2%) cerebral ischemia 2 (2%) Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine, but they may also be the first signs of , a syndrome that may also include tinnitus, reversible high-frequency hearing loss, deafness, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, headache, confusion, and delirium. Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose. cinchonism A few cases of , including granulomatous hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving quinidine. All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy, and most (not all) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn. hepatotoxicity associated with quinidine therapy have included fever, urticaria, flushing, exfoliative rash, bronchospasm, psoriasiform rash, pruritus and lymphadenopathy, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, uveitis, angioedema, agranulocytosis, the sicca syndrome, arthralgia, myalgia, elevation in serum levels of skeletal-muscle enzymes, a disorder resembling systemic lupus erythematosus, and pneumonitis. Autoimmune and inflammatory syndromes Convulsions, apprehension, and ataxia have been reported, but it is not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion. There are many reports of syncope. Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine, but these reactions appear to be extremely rare. Other adverse reactions occasionally reported include depression, mydriasis, disturbed color perception, night blindness, scotomata, optic neuritis, visual field loss, photosensitivity, and abnormalities of pigmentation."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years, but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions. The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and heartburn/esophagitis. In the reported study that was closest in character to the predominant approved use of quinidine gluconate, 86 adult outpatients with atrial fibrillation were followed for six months while they received slow-release quinidine bisulfate tablets, 600 mg (approximately 400 mg of quinidine base) twice daily. The incidences of adverse experiences reported more than once were as shown in the table below. The most serious quinidine-associated adverse reactions are described above under WARNINGS . ADVERSE EXPERIENCES REPORTED MORE THAN ONCE IN 86 PATIENTS WITH ATRIAL FIBRILLATION Incidence (%) diarrhea 21 (24%) fever 5 (6%) rash 5 (6%) arrhythmia 3 (3%) abnormal electrocardiogram 3 (3%) nausea/vomiting 3 (3%) dizziness 3 (3%) headache 3 (3%) asthenia 2 (2%) cerebral ischemia 2 (2%) Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine, but they may also be the first signs of cinchonism, a syndrome that may also include tinnitus, reversible high-frequency hearing loss, deafness, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, headache, confusion, and delirium. Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose. A few cases of hepatotoxicity, including granulomatous hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving quinidine. All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy, and most (not all) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Quinidine preparations have been used for many years, but there are only sparse data from which to estimate the incidence of various adverse reactions. The adverse reactions most frequently reported have consistently been gastrointestinal, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and heartburn/esophagitis. In the reported study that was closest in character to the predominant approved use of quinidine gluconate, 86 adult outpatients with atrial fibrillation were followed for six months while they received slow-release quinidine bisulfate tablets, 600 mg (approximately 400 mg of quinidine base) twice daily. The incidences of adverse experiences reported more than once were as shown in the table below. The most serious quinidine-associated adverse reactions are described above under WARNINGS . ADVERSE EXPERIENCES REPORTED MORE THAN ONCE IN 86 PATIENTS WITH ATRIAL FIBRILLATION Incidence (%) diarrhea 21 (24)% fever 5 (6%) rash 5 (6%) arrhythmia 3 (3%) abnormal electrocardiogram 3 (3%) nausea/vomiting 3 (3%) dizziness 3 (3%) headache 3 (3%) asthenia 2 (2%) cerebral ischemia 2 (2%) Vomiting and diarrhea can occur as isolated reactions to therapeutic levels of quinidine, but they may also be the first signs of cinchonism, a syndrome that may also include tinnitus, reversible high-frequency hearing loss, deafness, vertigo, blurred vision, diplopia, photophobia, headache, confusion, and delirium. Cinchonism is most often a sign of chronic quinidine toxicity, but it may appear in sensitive patients after a single moderate dose. A few cases of hepatotoxicity, including granulomatous hepatitis, have been reported in patients receiving quinidine. All of these have appeared during the first few weeks of therapy, and most (not all) have remitted once quinidine was withdrawn. Autoimmune and inflammatory syndromes associated with quinidine therapy have included fever, urticaria, flushing, exfoliative rash, bronchospasm, psoriasiform rash, pruritus and lymphadenopathy, hemolytic anemia, vasculitis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, uveitis, angioedema, agranulocytosis, the sicca syndrome, arthralgia, myalgia, elevation in serum levels of skeletal-muscle enzymes, a disorder resembling systemic lupus erythematosus, and pneumonitis. Convulsions, apprehension, and ataxia have been reported, but it is not clear that these were not simply the results of hypotension and consequent cerebral hypoperfusion. There are many reports of syncope. Acute psychotic reactions have been reported to follow the first dose of quinidine, but these reactions appear to be extremely rare. Other adverse reactions occasionally reported include depression, mydriasis, disturbed color perception, night blindness, scotomata, optic neuritis, visual field loss, photosensitivity, and abnormalities of pigmentation."$$
"Drug and Diet Interactions Altered pharmacokinetics of quinidine: Diltiazem significantly decreases the clearance and increases the t1/2 of quinidine, but quinidine does not alter the kinetics of diltiazem. Drugs that alkalinize the urine (carbonic-anhydrase inhibitors, sodium bicarbonate, thiazide diuretics) reduce renal elimination of quinidine. By pharmacokinetic mechanisms that are not well understood, quinidine levels are increased by coadministration of amiodarone or cimetidine. Very rarely, and again by mechanisms not understood, quinidine levels are decreased by coadministration of nifedipine. Hepatic elimination of quinidine may be accelerated by coadministration of drugs (phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin) that induce production of cytochrome P450IIIA4. Perhaps because of competition for the P450IIIA4 metabolic pathway, quinidine levels rise when ketoconazole is coadministered. Coadministration of propranolol usually does not affect quinidine pharmacokinetics, but in some studies the \\316\\262-blocker appeared to cause increases in the peak serum levels of quinidine, decreases in quinidine's volume of distribution, and decreases in total quinidine clearance. The effects (if any) of coadministration of other \\316\\262-blockers on quinidine pharmacokinetics have not been adequately studied. Hepatic clearance of quinidine is significantly reduced during coadministration of verapamil, with corresponding increases in serum levels and half-life. Grapefruit juice: Grapefruit juice inhibits P450 3A4-mediated metabolism of quinidine to 3-hydroxyquinidine. Although the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, grapefruit juice should be avoided. Dietary salt: The rate and extent of quinidine absorption may be affected by changes in dietary salt intake; a decrease in dietary salt intake may lead to an increase in plasma quinidine concentrations. Altered pharmacokinetics of other drugs: Quinidine slows the elimination of digoxin and simultaneously reduces digoxin's apparent volume of distribution. As a result, serum digoxin levels may be as much as doubled. When quinidine and digoxin are coadministered, digoxin doses usually need to be reduced. Serum levels of digitoxin are also raised when quinidine is coadministered, although the effect appears to be smaller. By a mechanism that is not understood, quinidine potentiates the anticoagulatory action of warfarin, and the anticoagulant dosage may need to be reduced. Cytochrome P450IID6 is an enzyme critical to the metabolism of many drugs, notably including mexiletine, some phenothiazines, and most polycyclic antidepressants. Constitutional deficiency of cytochrome P450IID6 is found in less than 1% of Orientals, in about 2% of American blacks, and in about 8% of American whites. Testing with debrisoquine is sometimes used to distinguish the P450IID6-deficient \\\\"poor metabolizers\\\\" from the majority-phenotype \\\\"extensive metabolizers\\\\". When drugs whose metabolism is P450IID6-dependent are given to poor metabolizers, the serum levels achieved are higher, sometimes much higher, than the serum levels achieved when identical doses are given to extensive metabolizers. To obtain similar clinical benefit without toxicity, doses given to poor metabolizers may need to be greatly reduced. In the case of prodrugs whose actions are actually mediated by P450IID6-produced metabolites (for example, codeine and hydrocodone, whose analgesic and antitussive effects appear to be mediated by morphine and hydromorphone, respectively), it may not be possible to achieve the desired clinical benefits in poor metabolizers. Quinidine is not metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6, but therapeutic serum levels of quinidine inhibit the action of cytochrome P450IID6, effectively converting extensive metabolizers into poor metabolizers. Caution must be exercised whenever quinidine is prescribed together with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6. Perhaps by competing for pathways of renal clearance, coadministration of quinidine causes an increase in serum levels of procainamide. Serum levels of haloperidol are increased when quinidine is coadministered. Presumably because both drugs are metabolized by cytochrome P450IIIA4, coadministration of quinidine causes variable slowing of the metabolism of nifedipine. Interactions with other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers have not been reported, but these agents (including felodipine, nicardipine, and nimodipine) are all dependent upon P450IIIA4 for metabolism, so similar interactions with quinidine should be anticipated. Altered pharmacodynamics of other drugs: Quinidine's anticholinergic, vasodilating, and negative inotropic actions may be additive to those of other drugs with these effects, and antagonistic to those of drugs with cholinergic, vasoconstricting, and positive inotropic effects. For example, when quinidine and verapamil are coadministered in doses that are each well tolerated as monotherapy, hypotension attributable to additive peripheral \\316\\261-blockade is sometimes reported. Quinidine potentiates the actions of depolarizing (succinylcholine, decamethonium) and non-depolarizing (d-tubocurarine, pancuronium) neuromuscular blocking agents. These phenomena are not well understood, but they are observed in animal models as well as in humans. In addition, in vitro addition of quinidine to the serum of pregnant women reduces the activity of pseudo-cholinesterase, an enzyme that is essential to the metabolism of succinylcholine. Non-interactions of quinidine with other drugs: Quinidine has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of diltiazem, flecainide, mephenytoin, metoprolol, propafenone, propranolol, quinine, timolol, or tocainide. Conversely, the pharmacokinetics of quinidine are not significantly affected by caffeine, ciprofloxacin, digoxin, felodipine, omeprazole, or quinine. Quinidine's pharmacokinetics are also unaffected by cigarette smoking."$$
"Drug and Diet Interactions Altered pharmacokinetics of quinidine: Diltiazem significantly decreases the clearance and increases the t\\302\\275 of quinidine, but quinidine does not alter the kinetics of diltiazem. Drugs that alkalinize the urine (carbonic-anhydrase inhibitors, sodium bicarbonate, thiazide diuretics) reduce renal elimination of quinidine. By pharmacokinetic mechanisms that are not well understood, quinidine levels are increased by coadministration of amiodarone or cimetidine. Very rarely, and again by mechanisms not understood, quinidine levels are decreased by coadministration of nifedipine. Hepatic elimination of quinidine may be accelerated by coadministration of drugs (phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin) that induce production of cytochrome P450IIIA4. Perhaps because of competition for the P450IIIA4 metabolic pathway, quinidine levels rise when ketoconazole is coadministered. Coadministration of propranolol usually does not affect quinidine pharmacokinetics, but in some studies the \\316\\262-blocker appeared to cause increases in the peak serum levels of quinidine, decreases in quinidine's volume of distribution, and decreases in total quinidine clearance. The effects (if any) of coadministration of other \\316\\262-blockers on quinidine pharmacokinetics have not been adequately studied. Hepatic clearance of quinidine is significantly reduced during coadministration of verapamil, with corresponding increases in serum levels and half-life. Grapefruit juice: Grapefruit juice inhibits P450 3A4-mediated metabolism of quinidine to 3-hydroxyquinidine. Although the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, grapefruit juice should be avoided. Dietary salt: The rate and extent of quinidine absorption may be affected by changes in dietary salt intake; a decrease in dietary salt intake may lead to an increase in plasma quinidine concentrations. Altered pharmacokinetics of other drugs: Quinidine slows the elimination of digoxin and simultaneously reduces digoxin's apparent volume of distribution. As a result, serum digoxin levels may be as much as doubled. When quinidine and digoxin are coadministered, digoxin doses usually need to be reduced. Serum levels of digitoxin are also raised when quinidine is coadministered, although the effect appears to be smaller. By a mechanism that is not understood, quinidine potentiates the anticoagulatory action of warfarin, and the anticoagulant dosage may need to be reduced. Cytochrome P450IID6 is an enzyme critical to the metabolism of many drugs, notably including mexiletine, some phenothiazines, and most polycyclic antidepressants. Constitutional deficiency of cytochrome P450IID6 is found in less than 1% of Orientals, in about 2% of American blacks, and in about 8% of American whites. Testing with debrisoquine is sometimes used to distinguish the P450IID6-deficient \\\\"poor metabolizers\\\\" from the majority-phenotype \\\\"extensive metabolizers\\\\". When drugs whose metabolism is P450IID6-dependent are given to poor metabolizers, the serum levels achieved are higher, sometimes much higher, than the serum levels achieved when identical doses are given to extensive metabolizers. To obtain similar clinical benefit without toxicity, doses given to poor metabolizers may need to be greatly reduced. In the case of prodrugs whose actions are actually mediated by P450IID6-produced metabolites (for example, codeine and hydrocodone, whose analgesic and antitussive effects appear to be mediated by morphine and hydromorphone, respectively), it may not be possible to achieve the desired clinical benefits in poor metabolizers. Quinidine is not metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6, but therapeutic serum levels of quinidine inhibit the action of cytochrome P450IID6, effectively converting extensive metabolizers into poor metabolizers. Caution must be exercised whenever quinidine is prescribed together with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6. Perhaps by competing for pathways of renal clearance, coadministration of quinidine causes an increase in serum levels of procainamide. Serum levels of haloperidol are increased when quinidine is coadministered. Presumably because both drugs are metabolized by cytochrome P450IIIA4, coadministration of quinidine causes variable slowing of the metabolism of nifedipine. Interactions with other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers have not been reported, but these agents (including felodipine, nicardipine, and nimodipine) are all dependent upon P450IIIA4 for metabolism, so similar interactions with quinidine should be anticipated. Altered pharmacodynamics of other drugs: Quinidine's anticholinergic, vasodilating, and negative inotropic actions may be additive to those of other drugs with these effects, and antagonistic to those of drugs with cholinergic, vasoconstricting, and positive inotropic effects. For example, when quinidine and verapamil are coadministered in doses that are each well tolerated as monotherapy, hypotension attributable to additive peripheral \\316\\261-blockade is sometimes reported. Quinidine potentiates the actions of depolarizing (succinylcholine, decamethonium) and nondepolarizing (d-tubocurarine, pancuronium) neuromuscular blocking agents. These phenomena are not well understood, but they are observed in animal models as well as in humans. In addition, in vitro addition of quinidine to the serum of pregnant women reduces the activity of pseudocholinesterase, an enzyme that is essential to the metabolism of succinylcholine. Non-interactions of quinidine with other drugs: Quinidine has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of diltiazem, flecainide, mephenytoin, metoprolol, propafenone, propranolol, quinine, timolol, or tocainide. Conversely, the pharmacokinetics of quinidine are not significantly affected by caffeine, ciprofloxacin, digoxin, felodipine, omeprazole, or quinine. Quinidine's pharmacokinetics are also unaffected by cigarette smoking."$$
"Drug and Diet Interactions Diltiazem significantly decreases the clearance and increases the t of quinidine, but quinidine does not alter the kinetics of diltiazem. Altered pharmacokinetics of quinidine: 1/2 Drugs that alkalinize the urine ( ) reduce renal elimination of quinidine. carbonic-anhydrase inhibitors, sodium bicarbonate, thiazide diuretics By pharmacokinetic mechanisms that are not well understood, quinidine levels are increased by coadministration of or . Very rarely, and again by mechanisms not understood, quinidine levels are decreased by coadministration of . amiodarone cimetidine nifedipine Hepatic elimination of quinidine may be accelerated by coadministration of drugs ( ) that induce production of cytochrome P450 . phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin IIIA4 Perhaps because of competition for the P450 metabolic pathway, quinidine levels rise when is coadministered. IIIA4 ketoconazole Coadministration of usually does not affect quinidine pharmacokinetics, but in some studies the \\316\\262-blocker appeared to cause increases in the peak serum levels of quinidine, decreases in quinidine's volume of distribution, and decreases in total quinidine clearance. The effects (if any) of coadministration of on quinidine pharmacokinetics have not been adequately studied. propranolol other \\316\\262-blockers Hepatic clearance of quinidine is significantly reduced during coadministration of , with corresponding increases in serum levels and half-life. verapamil Grapefruit juice inhibits P450 3A4-mediated metabolism of quinidine to 3-hydroxyquinidine. Although the clinical significance of this interaction is unknown, grapefruit juice should be avoided. Grapefruit juice: The rate and extent of quinidine absorption may be affected by changes in dietary salt intake; a decrease in dietary salt intake may lead to an increase in plasma quinidine concentrations. Dietary salt: Quinidine slows the elimination of and simultaneously reduces digoxin's apparent volume of distribution. As a result, serum digoxin levels may be as much as doubled. When quinidine and digoxin are coadministered, digoxin doses usually need to be reduced. Serum levels of are also raised when quinidine is coadministered, although the effect appears to be smaller. Altered pharmacokinetics of other drugs: digoxin digitoxin By a mechanism that is not understood, quinidine potentiates the anticoagulatory action of , and the anticoagulant dosage may need to be reduced. warfarin Cytochrome P450 is an enzyme critical to the metabolism of many drugs, notably including , some , and most . Constitutional deficiency of cytochrome P450 is found in less than 1% of Orientals, in about 2% of American blacks, and in about 8% of American whites. Testing with debrisoquine is sometimes used to distinguish the P450 -deficient \\\\"poor metabolizers\\\\" from the majority-phenotype \\\\"extensive metabolizers\\\\". IID6 mexiletine phenothiazines polycyclic antidepressants IID6 IID6 When drugs whose metabolism is P450 -dependent are given to poor metabolizers, the serum levels achieved are higher, sometimes much higher, than the serum levels achieved when identical doses are given to extensive metabolizers. To obtain similar clinical benefit without toxicity, doses given to poor metabolizers may need to be greatly reduced. In the case of prodrugs whose actions are actually mediated by P450 -produced metabolites (for example, and , whose analgesic and antitussive effects appear to be mediated by morphine and hydromorphone, respectively), it may not be possible to achieve the desired clinical benefits in poor metabolizers. IID6 IID6 codeine hydrocodone Quinidine is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 , but therapeutic serum levels of quinidine inhibit the action of cytochrome P450 , effectively converting extensive metabolizers into poor metabolizers. Caution must be exercised whenever quinidine is prescribed together with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 . IID6 IID6 IID6 Perhaps by competing for pathways of renal clearance, coadministration of quinidine causes an increase in serum levels of . procainamide Serum levels of are increased when quinidine is coadministered. haloperidol Presumably because both drugs are metabolized by cytochrome P450 , coadministration of quinidine causes variable slowing of the metabolism of . Interactions with other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers have not been reported, but these agents (including and ) are all dependent upon P450 for metabolism, so similar interactions with quinidine should be anticipated. IIIA4 nifedipine felodipine, nicardipine, nimodipine IIIA4 Quinidine's anticholinergic, vasodilating, and negative inotropic actions may be additive to those of other drugs with these effects, and antagonistic to those of drugs with cholinergic, vasoconstricting, and positive inotropic effects. For example, when quinidine and are coadministered in doses that are each well tolerated as monotherapy, hypotension attributable to additive peripheral \\316\\261-blockade is sometimes reported. Altered pharmacodynamics of other drugs: verapamil Quinidine potentiates the actions of depolarizing (succinylcholine, decamethonium) and non-depolarizing ( -tubocurarine, pancuronium) . These phenomena are not well understood, but they are observed in animal models as well as in humans. In addition, addition of quinidine to the serum of pregnant women reduces the activity of pseudo-cholinesterase, an enzyme that is essential to the metabolism of succinylcholine. d neuromuscular blocking agents in vitro Quinidine has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of or . Non-interactions of quinidine with other drugs: diltiazem, flecainide, mephenytoin, metoprolol, propafenone, propranolol, quinine, timolol, tocainide Conversely, the pharmacokinetics of quinidine are not significantly affected by or . Quinidine's pharmacokinetics are also unaffected by cigarette smoking. caffeine, ciprofloxacin, digoxin, felodipine, omeprazole, quinine"$$
"Drug interactions \\342\\200\\224 Altered pharmacokinetics of quinidine: Drugs that alkalinize the urine (carbonic-anhydrase inhibitors, sodium bicarbonate, thiazide diuretics) reduce renal elimination of quinidine. By pharmacokinetic mechanisms that are not well understood, quinidine levels are increased by coadministration of amiodarone or cimetidine. Very rarely, and again by mechanisms not understood, quinidine levels are decreased by coadministration of nifedipine. Hepatic elimination of quinidine may be accelerated by coadministration of drugs (phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin) that induce production of cytochrome P450IIIA4. Perhaps because of competition of the P450IIIA4 metabolic pathway, quinidine levels rise when ketaconazole is coadministered. Coadministration of propranolol usually does not affect quinidine pharmacokinetics, but in some studies, the \\303\\237-blocker appeared to cause increases in the peak serum levels of quinidine, decreases in quinidine's volume of distribution and decreases in total quinidine clearance. The effects (if any) of coadministration of other \\303\\237-blockers on quinidine pharmacokinetics have not been adequately studied. Hepatic clearance of quinidine is significantly reduced during coadministration of verapamil, with corresponding increases in serum levels and half-life. Altered pharmacokinetics of other drugs: Quinidine slows the elimination of digoxin and simultaneously reduces digoxin's apparent volume of distribution. As a result, serum digoxin levels may be as much as doubled. When quinidine and digoxin are coadministered, digoxin doses usually need to be reduced. Serum levels of digitoxin are also raised when quinidine is coadministered, although the effect appears to be smaller. By a mechanism that is not understood, quinidine potentiates the anticoagulatory action of warfarin, and the anticoagulant dosage may need to be reduced. Cytochrome P450IID6 is an enzyme critical to the metabolism of many drugs, notably including mexiletine, some phenothiazines, and most polycyclic antidepressants. Constitutional deficiency of cytochrome P450IID6 is found in less than 1% of Orientals, in about 2% of American blacks, and in about 8% of American whites. Testing with debrisoquine is sometimes used to distinguish the P450IID6-deficient \\\\"poor metabolizers\\\\" from the majority-phenotype \\\\"extensive metabolizers.\\\\" When drugs whose metabolism is P450IID6-dependent are given to poor metabolizers, the serum levels achieved are higher, sometimes much higher, than the serum levels achieved when identical doses are given to extensive metabolizers. To obtain similar clinical benefit without toxicity, doses given to poor metabolizers may need to be greatly reduced. In the cases of prodrugs whose actions are actually mediated by P450IID6-produced metabolites (for example, codeine and hydrocodone, whose analgesic and antitussive effects appear to be mediated by morphine and hydromorphone, respectively), it may not be possible to achieve the desired clinical benefits in poor metabolizers. Quinidine is not metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6, but therapeutic serum levels of quinidine inhibit the action of cytochrome P450IID6, effectively converting extensive metabolizers into poor metabolizers. Caution must be exercised whenever quinidine is prescribed together with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450IID6. Perhaps by competing for pathways of renal clearance, coadministration of quinidine causes an increase in serum levels of procainamide. Serum levels of haloperidol are increased when quinidine is coadministered. Presumably because both drugs are metabolized by cyctochrome P450IIIA4, coadministration of quinidine causes variable slowing of the metabolism of nifedipine. Interactions with other dihydropyridine calcium-channel blockers have not been reported, but these agents (including felodipine, nicardipine, and nimodipine) are all dependent upon P450IIIA4 for metabolism, so similar interactions with quinidine should be anticipated. Altered pharmacodynamics of other drugs: Quinidine's anticholinergic, vasodilating, and negative inotropic actions may be additive to those of other drugs with these effects, and antagonistic to those of drugs with cholinergic, vasoconstricting, and positive inotropic effects. For example, when quinidine and verapamil are coadministered in doses that are each well tolerated as monotherapy, hypotension attributable to additive peripheral \\316\\261-blockade is sometimes reported. Quinidine potentiates the actions of depolarizing (succinylcholine, decamethonium) and nondepolarizing (d-tubocurarine, pancuronium) neuromuscular blocking agents. These phenomena are not well understood, but they are observed in animal models as well as in humans. In addition, in vitro addition of quinidine to the serum of pregnant women reduces the activity of pseudocholinesterase, an enzyme that is essential to the metabolism of succinylcholine. Diltiazem significantly decreases the clearance and increases the t\\302\\275 of quinidine, but quinidine does not alter the kinetics of diltiazem. Non-interactions of quinidine with other drugs: Quinidine has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of diltiazem, flecainide, mephenytoin, metoprolol, propafenone, propranolol, quinine, timolol, or tocainide. Conversely, the pharmacokinetics of quinidine are not significantly affected by caffeine, ciprofloxacin, digoxin, felodipine, omeprazole, or quinine. Quinidine's pharmacokinetics are also unaffected by cigarette smoking."$$
