"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious cases of dysphagia, bowel obstruction, and perforation have been associated with sevelamer use, some requiring hospitalization and surgery. ( ) 5.1 5.1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events Cases of dysphagia and esophageal tablet retention have been reported in association with use of the tablet formulation of sevelamer, some requiring hospitalization and intervention. Consider using sevelamer suspension in patients with a history of swallowing disorders. Cases of bowel obstruction and perforation have also been reported with sevelamer use. Patients with dysphagia, swallowing disorders, severe gastrointestinal (GI) motility disorders including severe constipation, or major GI tract surgery were not included in the Renagel clinical studies. 5.2 Monitor Serum Chemistries Bicarbonate and chloride levels should be monitored. 5.3 Monitor for Reduced Vitamins D, E, K (clotting factors) and Folic Acid Levels In preclinical studies in rats and dogs, sevelamer hydrochloride reduced vitamins D, E, and K (coagulation parameters) and folic acid levels at doses of 6-10 times the recommended human dose. In short-term clinical trials, there was no evidence of reduction in serum levels of vitamins. However, in a one-year clinical trial, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (normal range 10 to 55 ng/mL) fell from 39 \\302\\261 22 ng/mL to 34 \\302\\261 22 ng/mL (p<0.01) with sevelamer hydrochloride treatment. Most (approximately 75%) patients in sevelamer hydrochloride clinical trials received vitamin supplements, which is typical of patients on dialysis."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious cases of dysphagia, bowel obstruction, and perforation have been associated with sevelamer use, some requiring hospitalization and surgery. (5.1) 5.1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events Cases of dysphagia and esophageal tablet retention have been reported in association with use of the tablet formulation of sevelamer, some requiring hospitalization and intervention. Consider using sevelamer suspension in patients with a history of swallowing disorders. Cases of bowel obstruction and perforation have also been reported with sevelamer use. Patients with dysphagia, swallowing disorders, severe gastrointestinal (GI) motility disorders including severe constipation, or major GI tract surgery were not included in the Renagel clinical studies. 5.2 Monitor Serum Chemistries Bicarbonate and chloride levels should be monitored. 5.3 Monitor for Reduced Vitamins D, E, K (clotting factors) and Folic Acid Levels In preclinical studies in rats and dogs, sevelamer hydrochloride reduced vitamins D, E, and K (coagulation parameters) and folic acid levels at doses of 6-10 times the recommended human dose. In short-term clinical trials, there was no evidence of reduction in serum levels of vitamins. However, in a one-year clinical trial, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (normal range 10 to 55 ng/mL) fell from 39 \\302\\261 22 ng/mL to 34 \\302\\261 22 ng/mL (p<0.01) with sevelamer hydrochloride treatment. Most (approximately 75%) patients in sevelamer hydrochloride clinical trials received vitamin supplements, which is typical of patients on dialysis."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious cases of dysphagia, bowel obstruction, and perforation have been associated with sevelamer use, some requiring hospitalization and surgery. (5.1) 5.1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events Cases of dysphagia and esophageal tablet retention have been reported in association with use of the tablet formulation of sevelamer, some requiring hospitalization and intervention. Consider using sevelamer suspension in patients with a history of swallowing disorders. Cases of bowel obstruction and perforation have also been reported with sevelamer use. Patients with dysphagia, swallowing disorders, severe gastrointestinal (GI) motility disorders including severe constipation, or major GI tract surgery were not included in the Renagel clinical studies. 5.2 Monitor Serum Chemistries Bicarbonate and chloride levels should be monitored. 5.3 Monitor for Reduced Vitamins D, E, K (clotting factors) and Folic Acid Levels In preclinical studies in rats and dogs, sevelamer hydrochloride reduced vitamins D, E, and K (coagulation parameters) and folic acid levels at doses of 6-10 times the recommended human dose. In short-term clinical trials, there was no evidence of reduction in serum levels of vitamins. However, in a one-year clinical trial, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (normal range 10 to 55 ng/mL) fell from 39 \\302\\261 22 ng/mL to 34 \\302\\261 22 ng/mL (p<0.01) with sevelamer hydrochloride treatment. Most (approximately 75%) patients in sevelamer hydrochloride clinical trials received vitamin supplements, which is typical of patients on dialysis."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reasons for discontinuing treatment were gastrointestinal adverse reactions. ( ) 6.1 In a parallel design study, of 12 weeks duration, treatment emergent adverse reactions to Renagel Tablets in peritoneal dialysis patients included dyspepsia (12%), peritonitis (8%), diarrhea (5%), nausea (5%), constipation (4%), pruritus (4%), abdominal distension (3%), vomiting (3%), fatigue (3%), anorexia (3%), and arthralgia (3%). ( ) 6.1 Similar reactions at similar rates occurred in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients. ( ) 6.1 Cases of fecal impaction and, less commonly, ileus, bowel obstruction, and bowel perforation have been reported. ( ) 6.2 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Genzyme Corporation at 1-800-847-0069 and or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug can not be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a parallel design study of sevelamer hydrochloride with treatment duration of 52 weeks, adverse reactions reported for sevelamer hydrochloride (n=99) were similar to those reported for the active-control group (n=101). Overall adverse reactions among those treated with sevelamer hydrochloride occurring in > 5% of patients included: vomiting (22%), nausea (20%), diarrhea (19%), dyspepsia (16%), abdominal pain (9%), flatulence (8%) and constipation (8%). A total of 27 patients treated with sevelamer and 10 patients treated with comparator withdrew from the study due to adverse reactions. Based on studies of 8-52 weeks, the most common reason for withdrawal from Renagel was gastrointestinal adverse reactions (3-16%). In one hundred and forty-three peritoneal dialysis patients studied for 12 weeks most adverse reactions were similar to adverse reactions observed in hemodialysis patients. The most frequently occurring treatment emergent serious adverse reaction was peritonitis (8 reactions in 8 patients [8%] in the sevelamer group and 2 reactions in 2 patients [4%] on active-control). Thirteen patients (14%) in the sevelamer group and 9 patients (20%) in the active-control group discontinued, mostly for gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Patients on peritoneal dialysis should be closely monitored to ensure the reliable use of appropriate aseptic technique with the prompt recognition and management of any signs and symptoms associated with peritonitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of sevelamer hydrochloride (Renagel ): pruritus, rash, abdominal pain, fecal impaction and uncommon cases of ileus, intestinal obstruction, and intestinal perforation. Appropriate medical management should be given to patients who develop constipation or have worsening of existing constipation to avoid severe complications. (R) Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reasons for discontinuing treatment were gastrointestinal adverse reactions. (6.1) In a parallel design study, of 12 weeks duration, treatment emergent adverse reactions to Renagel Tablets in peritoneal dialysis patients included dyspepsia (12%), peritonitis (8%), diarrhea (5%), nausea (5%), constipation (4%), pruritus (4%), abdominal distension (3%), vomiting (3%), fatigue (3%), anorexia (3%), and arthralgia (3%). (6.1) Similar reactions at similar rates occurred in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients. (6.1) Cases of fecal impaction and, less commonly, ileus, bowel obstruction, and bowel perforation have been reported. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Genzyme Corporation at 1-800-847-0069 and or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug can not be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a parallel design study of sevelamer hydrochloride with treatment duration of 52 weeks, adverse reactions reported for sevelamer hydrochloride (n=99) were similar to those reported for the active-control group (n=101). Overall adverse reactions among those treated with sevelamer hydrochloride occurring in > 5% of patients included: vomiting (22%), nausea (20%), diarrhea (19%), dyspepsia (16%), abdominal pain (9%), flatulence (8%) and constipation (8%). A total of 27 patients treated with sevelamer and 10 patients treated with comparator withdrew from the study due to adverse reactions. Based on studies of 8-52 weeks, the most common reason for withdrawal from Renagel was gastrointestinal adverse reactions (3-16%). In one hundred and forty-three peritoneal dialysis patients studied for 12 weeks most adverse reactions were similar to adverse reactions observed in hemodialysis patients. The most frequently occurring treatment emergent serious adverse reaction was peritonitis (8 reactions in 8 patients [8%] in the sevelamer group and 2 reactions in 2 patients [4%] on active-control). Thirteen patients (14%) in the sevelamer group and 9 patients (20%) in the active-control group discontinued, mostly for gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Patients on peritoneal dialysis should be closely monitored to ensure the reliable use of appropriate aseptic technique with the prompt recognition and management of any signs and symptoms associated with peritonitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of sevelamer hydrochloride (Renagel(R)): pruritus, rash, abdominal pain, fecal impaction and uncommon cases of ileus, intestinal obstruction, and intestinal perforation. Appropriate medical management should be given to patients who develop constipation or have worsening of existing constipation to avoid severe complications. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common reasons for discontinuing treatment were gastrointestinal adverse reactions. (6.1) In a parallel design study, of 12 weeks duration, treatment emergent adverse reactions to Renagel Tablets in peritoneal dialysis patients included dyspepsia (12%), peritonitis (8%), diarrhea (5%), nausea (5%), constipation (4%), pruritus (4%), abdominal distension (3%), vomiting (3%), fatigue (3%), anorexia (3%), and arthralgia (3%). (6.1) Similar reactions at similar rates occurred in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients. (6.1) Cases of fecal impaction and, less commonly, ileus, bowel obstruction, and bowel perforation have been reported. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Genzyme Corporation at 1-800-847-0069 and or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug can not be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a parallel design study of sevelamer hydrochloride with treatment duration of 52 weeks, adverse reactions reported for sevelamer hydrochloride (n=99) were similar to those reported for the active-control group (n=101). Overall adverse reactions among those treated with sevelamer hydrochloride occurring in > 5% of patients included: vomiting (22%), nausea (20%), diarrhea (19%), dyspepsia (16%), abdominal pain (9%), flatulence (8%) and constipation (8%). A total of 27 patients treated with sevelamer and 10 patients treated with comparator withdrew from the study due to adverse reactions. Based on studies of 8-52 weeks, the most common reason for withdrawal from Renagel was gastrointestinal adverse reactions (3-16%). In one hundred and forty-three peritoneal dialysis patients studied for 12 weeks, most adverse reactions were similar to adverse reactions observed in hemodialysis patients. The most frequently occurring treatment emergent serious adverse reaction was peritonitis (8 reactions in 8 patients [8%] in the sevelamer group and 2 reactions in 2 patients [4%] on active-control). Thirteen patients (14%) in the sevelamer group and 9 patients (20%) in the active-control group discontinued, mostly for gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Patients on peritoneal dialysis should be closely monitored to ensure the reliable use of appropriate aseptic technique with the prompt recognition and management of any signs and symptoms associated with peritonitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of sevelamer hydrochloride (Renagel(R)): pruritus, rash, abdominal pain, fecal impaction and uncommon cases of ileus, intestinal obstruction, and intestinal perforation. Appropriate medical management should be given to patients who develop constipation or have worsening of existing constipation to avoid severe complications. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Renagel has been studied in human drug-drug interaction studies with ciprofloxacin, digoxin, warfarin, enalapril, metoprolol and iron. Decreases the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50%. ( ) 7.1 In normal volunteer studies, sevelamer hydrochloride did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of digoxin, warfarin, enalapril, metoprolol, and iron. ( ) 7 When administering an oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, the drug should be administered at least one hour before or three hours after Renagel, or the physician should consider monitoring blood levels of the drug. ( ) 7.7 7.1 Ciprofloxacin In a study of 15 healthy subjects, a co-administered single dose of 7 Renagel capsules (approximately 2.8 g) decreased the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50%. 7.2 Digoxin In 19 healthy subjects receiving 6 Renagel capsules three times a day with meals for 2 days, Renagel did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of digoxin. 7.3 Warfarin In 14 healthy subjects receiving 6 Renagel capsules three times a day with meals for 2 days, Renagel did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of warfarin. 7.4 Enalapril In 28 healthy subjects a single dose of 6 Renagel capsules did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of enalapril. 7.5 Metoprolol In 31 healthy subjects a single dose of 6 Renagel capsules did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of metoprolol. 7.6 Iron In 23 healthy subjects, a single dose of 7 Renagel capsules did not alter the absorption of a single oral dose of iron as 200 mg exsiccated ferrous sulfate tablet. 7.7 Other Concomitant Drug Therapy There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between Renagel and most concomitant drugs. During postmarketing experience, very rare cases of increased thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels have been reported in patients co-administered sevelamer hydrochloride and levothyroxine. Closer monitoring of TSH levels is therefore recommended in patients receiving both medications. (R) When administering an oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, the drug should be administered at least one hour before or three hours after Renagel, or the physician should consider monitoring blood levels of the drug. Patients taking anti-arrhythmic medications for the control of arrhythmias and anti-seizure medications for the control of seizure disorders were excluded from the clinical trials. Special precautions should be taken when prescribing Renagel to patients also taking these medications."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Renagel has been studied in human drug-drug interaction studies with ciprofloxacin, digoxin, warfarin, enalapril, metoprolol and iron. Decreases the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50%. (7.1) In normal volunteer studies, sevelamer hydrochloride did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of digoxin, warfarin, enalapril, metoprolol, and iron. (7) When administering an oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, the drug should be administered at least one hour before or three hours after Renagel, or the physician should consider monitoring blood levels of the drug. (7.7) 7.1 Ciprofloxacin In a study of 15 healthy subjects, a co-administered single dose of 7 Renagel capsules (approximately 2.8 g) decreased the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50%. 7.2 Digoxin In 19 healthy subjects receiving 6 Renagel capsules three times a day with meals for 2 days, Renagel did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of digoxin. 7.3 Warfarin In 14 healthy subjects receiving 6 Renagel capsules three times a day with meals for 2 days, Renagel did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of warfarin. 7.4 Enalapril In 28 healthy subjects a single dose of 6 Renagel capsules did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of enalapril. 7.5 Metoprolol In 31 healthy subjects a single dose of 6 Renagel capsules did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of metoprolol. 7.6 Iron In 23 healthy subjects, a single dose of 7 Renagel capsules did not alter the absorption of a single oral dose of iron as 200 mg exsiccated ferrous sulfate tablet. 7.7 Other Concomitant Drug Therapy There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between Renagel(R) and most concomitant drugs. During postmarketing experience, very rare cases of increased thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels have been reported in patients co-administered sevelamer hydrochloride and levothyroxine. Closer monitoring of TSH levels is therefore recommended in patients receiving both medications. When administering an oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, the drug should be administered at least one hour before or three hours after Renagel, or the physician should consider monitoring blood levels of the drug. Patients taking anti-arrhythmic medications for the control of arrhythmias and anti-seizure medications for the control of seizure disorders were excluded from the clinical trials. Special precautions should be taken when prescribing Renagel to patients also taking these medications."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between Renagel(R) and most concomitant oral drugs. For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, levothyroxine), consider separation of the timing of the administration of the two drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The duration of separation depends upon the absorption characteristics of the medication concomitantly administered, such as the time to reach peak systemic levels and whether the drug is an immediate release or an extended release product. Where possible consider monitoring clinical responses and/or blood levels of concomitant drugs that have a narrow therapeutic range. Table 4. Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from Renagel Dosing Recommendations Ciprofloxacin Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Mycophenolate mofetil Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer During postmarketing experience, cases of increased phosphate levels have been reported in patients taking proton pump inhibitors co-administered with sevelamer hydrochloride. When clinically significant drug interactions are expected, consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. (7) Sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics of digoxin, enalapril, iron, metoprolol and warfarin. (7) Sevelamer has demonstrated interaction with ciprofloxacin, and mycophenolate mofetil, and therefore these drugs should be dosed separately from Renagel. (7)"$$
