"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The adverse effects of H.P. Acthar Gel are related primarily to its steroidogenic effects. Not all of the adverse events described below have been seen after treatment with H.P. Acthar Gel, but might be expected to occur. [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)] Infections: Increased susceptibility to new infection and increased risk of exacerbation, dissemination or reactivation of latent infections. Signs and symptoms of infection may be masked. (5.1) Adrenal Insufficiency after Prolonged Therapy: Monitor for effects of hypothalamic-pituitary-axis suppression after stopping treatment. (5.2) Cushing's Syndrome: May occur after prolonged therapy. Monitor for signs and symptoms. (5.2) Elevated Blood Pressure, Salt and Water Retention and Hypokalemia: Monitor blood pressure and sodium and potassium levels. (5.3) Vaccination: Do not administer live or live attenuated vaccines to patients on immunosuppressive doses. (5.4) Masking of Symptoms of Other Underlying Disease/Disorders. Monitor patients for signs of other underlying disease/disorders that may be masked. (5.5) Gastrointestinal Perforation and Bleeding: There is a risk for gastric ulcers and bleeding. There is an increased risk of perforation in patients with certain GI disorders. Signs and symptoms may be masked. Monitor for signs of perforation and bleeding. (5.6) Behavioral and Mood Disturbances: May include euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, severe depression and psychosis. Existing conditions may be aggravated. (5.7) Comorbid Diseases: Symptoms of diabetes and myasthenia gravis may be worsened with treatment. (5.8) Ophthalmic Effects: Monitor for cataracts, infections and glaucoma. (5.9) Immunogenicity Potential: Neutralizing antibodies with chronic administration may lead to a loss of endogenous ACTH activity. (5.10) Use in Patients with Hypothyroidism or Liver Cirrhosis: May result in an enhanced effect. (5.11) Negative Effects on Growth and Physical Development: Monitor pediatric patients on long term therapy. (5.12) Decrease in Bone Density: Monitor for osteoporosis in patients on long term therapy. (5.13) Use in Pregnancy: Embryocidal effect. Apprise women of potential harm to the fetus. (5.14) 5.1 Infections H.P. Acthar Gel may increase the risks related to infections with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan or helminthic infections. Patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should be observed closely, and if therapy is prolonged, chemoprophylaxis should be instituted. 5.2 Cushing's Syndrome and Adrenal Insufficiency Upon Withdrawal Treatment with H.P. Acthar Gel can cause hypothalamic-pituitary-axis (HPA) suppression and Cushing's syndrome. These conditions should be monitored especially with chronic use. Suppression of the HPA may occur following prolonged therapy with the potential for adrenal insufficiency after withdrawal of the medication. Patients should be monitored for signs of insufficiency such as weakness, hyperpigmentation, weight loss, hypotension and abdominal pain. The symptoms of adrenal insufficiency in infants treated for infantile spasms can be difficult to identify. The symptoms are non-specific and may include anorexia, fatigue, lethargy, weakness, excessive weight loss, hypotension and abdominal pain. It is critical that parents and caregivers be made aware of the possibility of adrenal insufficiency when discontinuing H.P. Acthar Gel and should be instructed to observe for, and be able to recognize, these symptoms. [see Patient Counseling Information (17)] The recovery of the adrenal gland may take from days to months so patients should be protected from the stress (e.g. trauma or surgery) by the use of corticosteroids during the period of stress. The adrenal insufficiency may be minimized in adults and infants by tapering of the dose when discontinuing treatment. Signs or symptoms of Cushing's syndrome may occur during therapy but generally resolve after therapy is stopped. Patients should be monitored for these signs and symptoms such as deposition of adipose tissue in characteristics sites (e.g., moon face, truncal obesity), cutaneous striae, easy bruisability, decreased bone mineralization, weight gain, muscle weakness, hyperglycemia, and hypertension. 5.3 Elevated Blood Pressure, Salt and Water Retention and Hypokalemia H.P. Acthar Gel can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium and calcium. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. Caution should be used in the treatment of patients with hypertension, congestive heart failure, or renal insufficiency. 5.4 Vaccination Administration of live or live attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of H.P. Acthar Gel. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered; however, the response to such vaccines can not be predicted. Other immunization procedures should be undertaken with caution in patients who are receiving H.P. Acthar Gel, especially when high doses are administered, because of the possible hazards of neurological complications and lack of antibody response. 5.5 Masking Symptoms of Other Diseases H.P. Acthar Gel often acts by masking symptoms of other diseases/disorders without altering the course of the other disease/disorder. Patients should be monitored carefully during and for a period following discontinuation of therapy for signs of infection, abnormal cardiac function, hypertension, hyperglycemia, change in body weight and fecal blood loss. 5.6 Gastrointestinal Perforation and Bleeding H.P. Acthar Gel can cause GI bleeding and gastric ulcer. There is also an increased risk for perforation in patients with certain gastrointestinal disorders. Signs of gastrointestinal perforation, such as peritoneal irritation, may be masked by the therapy. Use caution where there is the possibility of impending perforation, abscess or other pyogenic infections, diverticulitis, fresh intestinal anastomoses, and active or latent peptic ulcer. 5.7 Behavioral and Mood Disturbances Use of H.P. Acthar Gel may be associated with central nervous system effects ranging from euphoria, insomnia, irritability (especially in infants), mood swings, personality changes, and severe depression, to frank psychotic manifestations. Also, existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated. 5.8 Comorbid Diseases Patients with a comorbid disease may have that disease worsened. Caution should be used when prescribing H.P. Acthar Gel in patients with diabetes and myasthenia gravis. 5.9 Ophthalmic Effects Prolonged use of H.P. Acthar Gel may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi and viruses. 5.10 Immunogenicity Potential H.P. Acthar Gel is immunogenic. Limited available data suggest that a patient may develop antibodies to H.P. Acthar Gel after chronic administration and loss of endogenous ACTH and H.P. Acthar Gel activity. Prolonged administration of H.P. Acthar Gel may increase the risk of hypersensitivity reactions. Sensitivity to porcine protein should be considered before starting therapy and during the course of treatment should symptoms arise. 5.11 Use in Patients with Hypothyroidism or Liver Cirrhosis There is an enhanced effect in patients with hypothyroidism and in those with cirrhosis of the liver. 5.12 Negative Effects on Growth and Physical Development Long-term use of H.P. Acthar Gel may have negative effects on growth and physical development in children. Changes in appetite are seen with H.P. Acthar Gel therapy, with the effects becoming more frequent as the dose or treatment period increases. These effects are reversible once H.P. Acthar Gel therapy is stopped. Growth and physical development of pediatric patients on prolonged therapy should be carefully monitored. 5.13 Decrease in Bone Density Decrease in bone formation and an increase in bone resorption both through an effect on calcium regulation (i.e. decreasing absorption and increasing excretion) and inhibition of osteoblast function may occur. These, together with a decrease in the protein matrix of the bone (secondary to an increase in protein catabolism) and reduced sex hormone production, may lead to inhibition of bone growth in children and adolescents and to the development of osteoporosis at any age. Special consideration should be given to patients at increased risk of osteoporosis (i.e., postmenopausal women) before initiating therapy, and bone density should be monitored in patients on long term therapy. 5.14 Use in Pregnancy H.P. Acthar Gel has been shown to have an embryocidal effect. Apprise women of potential harm to the fetus. [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Please refer to Adverse Reactions in Infants and Children Under 2 Years of Age ( Section 6.1.1 ) for consideration when treating patients with Infantile Spasms. The adverse reactions presented in Section 6.2 are primarily provided for consideration in use in adults and in children over 2 years of age, but these adverse reactions should also be considered when treating infants and children under 2 years of age. H.P. Acthar Gel causes the release of endogenous cortisol from the adrenal gland. Therefore all the adverse effects known to occur with elevated cortisol may occur with H.P. Acthar Gel administration as well. Common adverse reactions include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. Common adverse reactions for H.P. Acthar Gel are similar to those of corticosteroids and include fluid retention, alteration in glucose tolerance, elevation in blood pressure, behavioral and mood changes, increased appetite and weight gain. (6) Specific adverse reactions resulting from drug use in children under 2 years of age are increased risk of infections, hypertension, irritability, Cushingoid symptoms, cardiac hypertrophy and weight gain. (6.1.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mallinckrodt at 1-800-778-7898 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug, and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. 6.1.1 Adverse Reactions in Infants and Children Under 2 Years of Age While the types of adverse reactions seen in infants and children under age 2 treated for infantile spasms are similar to those seen in older patients, their frequency and severity may be different due to the very young age of the infant, the underlying disorder, the duration of therapy and the dosage regimen. Below is a summary of adverse reactions specifically tabulated from source data derived from retrospective chart reviews and clinical trials in children under 2 years of age treated for infantile spasms. The number of patients in controlled trials at the recommended dose was too few to provide meaningful incidence rates or to permit a meaningful comparison to the control groups. TABLE: Incidence (%) of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in >= 2% of H.P. Acthar Gel (repository corticotropin injection) Infants and Children under 2 years of Age System Organ Class Recommended 75 U/m2 bid n=122, (%) 150 U/m2 qd n=37 (%) *Specific infections that occurred at =2% were candidiasis, otitis media, pneumonia and upper respiratory tract infections. In the treatment of Infantile Spasms, other types of seizures/convulsions may occur because some patients with infantile spasms progress to other forms of seizures (for example, Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome). Additionally the spasms sometimes mask other seizures and once the spasms resolve after treatment, the other seizures may become visible. Cardiac disorders Cardiac Hypertrophy 3 0 Endocrine disorders Cushingoid 3 22 Gastrointestinal disorders Constipation 0 5 Diarrhea 3 14 Vomiting 3 5 General disorders and administration site conditions Irritability 7 19 Pyrexia 5 8 Infections and infestations Infection* 20 46 Investigations Weight gain 1 3 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Increased appetite 0 5 Decreased appetite 3 3 Nervous system disorders Convulsion 12 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Nasal Congestion 1 5 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Acne 0 14 Rash 0 8 Vascular disorders Hypertension 11 19 These adverse reactions may also be seen in adults and children over 2 years of age when treated for other purposes and with different doses and regimens. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions associated with the use of H.P. Acthar Gel have been identified from postmarketing experience with H.P. Acthar Gel. Only adverse events that are not listed above as adverse events reported from retrospective chart reviews and non-sponsor conducted clinical trials and those not discussed elsewhere in labeling, are listed in this section. Because the adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to use with H.P. Acthar Gel. Events are categorized by system organ class. Unless otherwise noted these adverse events have been reported in infants, children and adults. 6.2.1 Allergic Reactions Allergic responses have presented as dizziness, nausea and shock (adults only). 6.2.2 Cardiovascular Necrotizing angitis (adults only) and congestive heart failure. 6.2.3 Dermatologic Skin thinning (adults only), facial erythema and increased sweating (adults only). 6.2.4 Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate tolerance (infants only) and hirsutism. 6.2.5 Gastrointestinal Pancreatitis (adults only), abdominal distention and ulcerative esophagitis. 6.2.6 Metabolic Hypokalemic alkalosis (infants only). 6.2.7 Musculoskeletal Muscle weakness and vertebral compression fractures (infants only). 6.2.8 Neurological Headache (adults only), vertigo (adults only), subdural hematoma, intracranial hemorrhage (adults only), and reversible brain shrinkage (usually secondary to hypertension) (infants only). 6.3 Possible Additional Steroidogenic Effects Based on steroidogenic effects of H.P. Acthar Gel certain adverse events may be expected due to the pharmacological effects of corticosteroids. The adverse events that may occur but have not been reported for H.P. Acthar Gel are: 6.3.1 Dermatologic Impaired wound healing, abscess, petechiae and ecchymoses, and suppression of skin test reactions. 6.3.2 Endocrine Menstrual irregularities. 6.3.3 Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. 6.3.4 Musculoskeletal Loss of muscle mass and aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads. 6.3.5 Neurological Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema, (pseudo-tumor cerebri) usually after treatment, and subdural effusion. 6.3.6 Ophthalmic Exophthalmos."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Formal drug-drug interaction studies have not been performed. H.P. Acthar Gel may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy. H.P. Acthar Gel may accentuate the electrolyte loss associated with diuretic therapy. (7)"$$
