"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS INVIRASE must be used in combination with ritonavir. Please refer to the ritonavir full prescribing information for additional precautionary measures. If a serious or severe toxicity occurs during treatment with INVIRASE, INVIRASE should be interrupted until the etiology of the event is identified or the toxicity resolves. At that time, resumption of treatment with full-dose INVIRASE may be considered. For antiretroviral agents used in combination with INVIRASE, physicians should refer to the complete product information for these drugs for dose adjustment recommendations and for information regarding drug-associated adverse reactions. The concomitant use of INVIRASE/ritonavir and certain other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions (5.1, 7.3) QT and PR interval prolongations have been observed in a healthy volunteer study. Use with caution in patients with preexisting conduction system abnormalities and certain heart diseases. (5.2, 5.3, 12.2) Patients on INVIRASE therapy may develop new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus (5.4), hyperglycemia (5.4), elevated cholesterol and/or triglyceride concentrations (5.7), redistribution/accumulation of body fat (5.9), and immune reconstitution syndrome (5.10). Monitor cholesterol and triglycerides prior to therapy and periodically thereafter. (5.7) In patients with underlying hepatitis B or C, cirrhosis, chronic alcoholism and/or other underlying liver abnormalities there have been reports of worsening liver disease. (5.5) Hemophilia: Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VII may be required. (5.6) Various degrees of cross-resistance have been observed. (5.11) 5.1 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of INVIRASE/ritonavir, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving INVIRASE/ritonavir, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of INVIRASE/ritonavir, respectively. These interactions may lead to: Clinically significant adverse reactions potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. Clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of INVIRASE/ritonavir. Loss of therapeutic effect of INVIRASE/ritonavir and possible development of resistance. See Table 3 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during INVIRASE/ritonavir therapy; review concomitant medications during INVIRASE/ritonavir therapy; and monitor for adverse reactions associated with concomitant medications [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.2 PR Interval Prolongation Saquinavir/ritonavir prolongs the PR interval in a dose-dependent fashion. Cases of second or third degree atrioventricular block have been reported rarely. Patients with underlying structural heart disease, pre-existing conduction system abnormalities, cardiomyopathies and ischemic heart disease may be at increased risk for developing cardiac conduction abnormalities. ECG monitoring is recommended in these patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. The impact on the PR interval of co-administration of saquinavir/ritonavir with other drugs that prolong the PR interval (including calcium channel blockers, beta-adrenergic blockers, digoxin and atazanavir) has not been evaluated. As a result, co-administration of saquinavir/ritonavir with these drugs should be undertaken with caution, particularly with those drugs metabolized by CYP3A, and clinical monitoring is recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 5.3 QT Interval Prolongation Saquinavir/ritonavir causes dose-dependent QT prolongation. Torsades de pointes has been reported rarely post-marketing. Avoid saquinavir/ritonavir in patients with long QT syndrome. ECG monitoring is recommended if therapy is initiated in patients with congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias, hepatic impairment and electrolyte abnormalities. Correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to initiating saquinavir/ritonavir and monitor these electrolytes periodically during therapy. Do not use in combination with drugs that both increase saquinavir plasma concentrations and prolong the QT interval (see Tables 1 and 3 ) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Patients initiating therapy with ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE: An ECG should be performed prior to initiation of treatment. Patients with a QT interval > 450 msec should not receive ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE. For patients with a QT interval < 450 msec, an on-treatment ECG is suggested after approximately 3 to 4 days of therapy; patients with a QT interval > 480 msec or prolongation over pre-treatment by > 20 msec should discontinue ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE. Patients requiring treatment with medications with the potential to increase the QT interval and concomitant ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE: Such combinations should only be used where no alternative therapy is available and the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks. An ECG should be performed prior to initiation of the concomitant therapy, and patients with a QT interval > 450 msec should not initiate the concomitant therapy. If baseline QT interval < 450 msec, an on-treatment ECG should be performed after 3-4 days of therapy. For patients demonstrating a subsequent increase in QT interval to > 480 msec or increase by > 20 msec after commencing concomitant therapy, the physician should use best clinical judgment to discontinue either ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE or the concomitant therapy or both. A cardiology consult is recommended if drug discontinuation or interruption is being considered on the basis of ECG assessment. 5.4 Diabetes Mellitus / Hyperglycemia New onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-1-infected patients receiving protease-inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for the treatment of these events. In some cases diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease-inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease-inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.5 Hepatotoxicity In patients with underlying hepatitis B or C, cirrhosis, chronic alcoholism and/or other underlying liver abnormalities, there have been reports of worsening liver disease. 5.6 Hemophilia There have been reports of spontaneous bleeding in patients with hemophilia A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was required. In the majority of reported cases treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or restarted. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these episodes has not been established. 5.7 Hyperlipidemia Elevated cholesterol and/or triglyceride levels have been observed in some patients taking saquinavir in combination with ritonavir. Marked elevation in triglyceride levels is a risk factor for development of pancreatitis. Cholesterol and triglyceride levels should be monitored prior to initiating combination dosing regimen of INVIRASE with ritonavir, and at periodic intervals while on such therapy. In these patients, lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 5.8 Lactose Intolerance Each capsule contains lactose (anhydrous) 63.3 mg. This quantity should not induce specific symptoms of intolerance. 5.9 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), facial wasting, peripheral wasting, breast enlargement, and \\\\"cushingoid appearance\\\\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including INVIRASE. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia [PCP], or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.11 Resistance/Cross-resistance Varying degrees of cross-resistance among HIV-1 protease inhibitors have been observed. Continued administration of INVIRASE therapy following loss of viral suppression may increase the likelihood of cross resistance to other protease inhibitors [see Microbiology (12.4)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: PR Interval Prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] QT Interval Prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fatigue, pneumonia, lipodystrophy and abdominal pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Genentech at 1-800-835-2555 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adult Subjects Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The original INVIRASE safety database consisted of a total of 574 adult subjects who received saquinavir 600 mg alone or in combination with ZDV or ddC. Combination dosing with ritonavir is based on 352 HIV-1 infected subjects and 166 healthy subjects who received various combinations of either saquinavir (hard gel or soft-gel capsules) with ritonavir. The recommended dose of INVIRASE is 1000 mg twice daily co-administered with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily, in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Table 2 lists grade 2, 3 and 4 adverse events that occurred in >=2% of subjects receiving saquinavir soft gel capsules with ritonavir (1000/100 mg bid). Table 2 Grade 2, 3 and 4 Adverse Events (All CausalityIncludes events with unknown relationship to study drug) Reported in >=2% of Adult Subjects in the MaxCmin 1 Study of Saquinavir Soft Gel Capsules in Combination with Ritonavir 1000/100 mg twice a day Adverse Events Saquinavir soft gel capsules 1000 mg plus Ritonavir 100 mg bid (48 weeks) N=148 n (%=n/N) Endocrine Disorders Diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia 4 (3) Lipodystrophy 8 (5) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 16 (11) Vomiting 11 (7) Diarrhea 12 (8) Abdominal Pain 9 (6) Constipation 3 (2) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 9 (6) Fever 5 (3) Musculoskeletal Disorders Back Pain 3 (2) Respiratory Disorders Pneumonia 8 (5) Bronchitis 4 (3) Influenza 4 (3) Sinusitis 4 (3) Dermatological Disorders Rash 5 (3) Pruritus 5 (3) Dry lips/skin 3 (2) Eczema 3 (2) Limited experience is available from three trials investigating the pharmacokinetics of the INVIRASE 500 mg film-coated tablet compared to the INVIRASE 200 mg capsule in healthy volunteers (n=140). In two of these trials saquinavir was boosted with ritonavir; in the other trial, saquinavir was administered as single drug. The INVIRASE tablet and the capsule formulations were similarly tolerated. The most common adverse events were gastrointestinal disorders (such as nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea). Similar bioavailability was demonstrated and no clinically significant differences in saquinavir exposures were seen. Thus, similar safety profiles are expected between the two INVIRASE formulations. A study investigating the drug-drug interaction of rifampin 600 mg/day daily and INVIRASE 1000 mg/ritonavir 100 mg twice daily enrolled 28 healthy volunteers. Eleven of 17 healthy volunteers (65%) exposed concomitantly to rifampin and ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE developed severe hepatocellular toxicity which presented as increased hepatic transaminases. In some subjects, transaminases increased up to >20-fold the upper limit of normal and were associated with gastrointestinal symptoms, including abdominal pain, gastritis, nausea, and vomiting. Following discontinuation of all three drugs, clinical symptoms abated and the increased hepatic transaminases normalized [see Contraindications (4)]. Additional Adverse Reactions Reported During Clinical Trials with Saquinavir Blood and lymphatic system disorders: anemia, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia Cardiac disorders: heart murmur, syncope Ear and labyrinth disorders: tinnitus Eye disorders: visual impairment Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal discomfort, ascites, dyspepsia, dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, intestinal obstruction, mouth dry, mucosal ulceration, pancreatitis General disorders and administration site conditions: anorexia, asthenia, chest pain, edema, lethargy, wasting syndrome, weight increased Hepatobiliary disorders: chronic active hepatitis, hepatitis, hepatomegaly, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, portal hypertension Immune system disorders: allergic reaction Investigations: ALT increase, AST increase, blood creatine phosphokinase increased, increased alkaline phosphatase, GGT increase, raised amylase, raised LDH Metabolism and nutrition disorders: increased or decreased appetite, dehydration, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, muscle spasms, myalgia, polyarthritis Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps): acute myeloid leukemia, papillomatosis Nervous system disorders: confusion, convulsions, coordination abnormal, dizziness, dysgeusia, headache, hypoaesthesia, intracranial hemorrhage leading to death, loss of consciousness, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, somnolence, tremor Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, depression, insomnia, libido disorder, psychotic disorder, sleep disorder, suicide attempt Renal and urinary disorders: nephrolithiasis Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough, dyspnea Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: acne, alopecia, dermatitis bullous, drug eruption, erythema, severe cutaneous reaction associated with increased liver function tests, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, urticaria Vascular disorders: hypertension, hypotension, thrombophlebitis, peripheral vasoconstriction 6.2 Clinical Trial Experience in Pediatric Subjects Limited safety data are available from two pediatric clinical trials of saquinavir hard gel capsules (approximately 50 mg per kg twice daily) used in combination with either low dose ritonavir or lopinavir/ritonavir. These trials enrolled pediatric subjects aged 4 months to 16 years old. In the HIVNAT 017 study (INVIRASE + lopinavir/ritonavir), adverse events were reported in 90% of the 50 subjects enrolled. The most commonly reported adverse events considered related to study treatment were diarrhea (18%) and vomiting (10%). In the NV20911 study (INVIRASE + ritonavir), 4 subjects (22% of 18 enrolled) experienced adverse events that were considered related to INVIRASE + ritonavir. These events (n) were vomiting (3), abdominal pain (1) and diarrhea (1). All reported adverse events were mild or moderate in intensity. The adverse reaction profile of INVIRASE in the pediatric trials is similar to that observed in adult trials. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse events identified during postmarketing use are similar to those observed in clinical trials with INVIRASE and saquinavir soft gel capsules alone or in combination with ritonavir. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to INVIRASE exposure. In addition, torsades de pointes has been reported rarely [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interaction studies have been completed with both INVIRASE and saquinavir soft gel capsules. Observations from drug interaction studies with saquinavir soft gel capsules may not be predictive for INVIRASE/ritonavir. Because ritonavir is coadministered with INVIRASE, prescribers should also refer to the prescribing information for ritonavir regarding drug interactions associated with this agent. INVIRASE/ritonavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A, significantly increasing the exposure of drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A. (7.1) Coadministration of INVIRASE/ritonavir with drugs that induce CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentrations of saquinavir and reduced efficacy. (7.2) Certain drugs or drug classes should not be coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir based on drug interaction studies or predicted drug interactions. (5.1, 7.2, 7.3) 7.1 Potential for INVIRASE to Affect Other Drugs The combination INVIRASE/ritonavir is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A and may significantly increase the exposure of drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A. Drugs that are contraindicated specifically due to the observed or expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious or life-threatening adverse events are listed in Table 1 [see Contraindications (4)]. Coadministration with other CYP3A substrates may require a dose adjustment or additional monitoring (see Table 3 ). 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect INVIRASE The metabolism of saquinavir is mediated primarily by CYP3A. Additionally, saquinavir is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Therefore, drugs that affect CYP3A and/or P-gp may modify the pharmacokinetics of saquinavir. Coadministration with drugs that are potent inducers of CYP3A (e.g., phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine) may result in decreased plasma concentrations of saquinavir and reduced therapeutic effect. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Based on the finding of dose-dependent prolongations of QT and PR intervals in healthy volunteers receiving INVIRASE/ritonavir, additive effects on QT and/or PR interval prolongation may occur with certain members of the following drug classes: antiarrhythmics class IA or class III, neuroleptics, antidepressive agents, PDE5 inhibitors (when used for pulmonary arterial hypertension), antimicrobials, antihistaminics and others. This effect might lead to an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias, notably torsades de pointes. Therefore, concurrent administration of these agents with INVIRASE/ritonavir is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Table 3 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. Alteration in dose or avoidance of the combination may be recommended depending on the interaction. Table 3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or on Predicted Interaction with INVIRASE/ritonavir Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Saquinavir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment HIV-1 Antiviral Agents Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor: DelavirdineINVIRASE/ritonavir interaction has not been evaluated. | Saquinavir Effect on delavirdine is not well established Appropriate doses of the combination with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor: EfavirenzSee Drug Interactions (7) , Table 5 and Table 6 for magnitude of interactions., nevirapine | Saquinavir \\342\\206\\224 Efavirenz Appropriate doses of the combination of efavirenz or nevirapine and INVIRASE/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. HIV-1 protease inhibitor: Atazanavir INVIRASE/ritonavir | Saquinavir | Ritonavir \\342\\206\\224 Atazanavir Atazanavir in combination with INVIRASE/ritonavir should be used with caution. Additive effects on PR interval prolongation may occur with INVIRASE/ritonavir [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. HIV-1 protease inhibitor: Indinavir | Saquinavir Effect on indinavir is not well established Appropriate doses of the combination of indinavir and INVIRASE/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. HIV-1 protease inhibitor: Lopinavir/ritonavir (coformulated tablet) \\342\\206\\224 Saquinavir \\342\\206\\224 Lopinavir | Ritonavir Evidence from several clinical trials indicates that saquinavir concentrations achieved with the saquinavir and lopinavir/ritonavir combination are similar to those achieved following saquinavir/ritonavir 1000/100 mg. The recommended dose for this combination is saquinavir 1000 mg plus lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg bid. Lopinavir/ritonavir in combination with INVIRASE should be used with caution. Additive effects on QT and/or PR interval prolongation may occur with INVIRASE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. HIV-1 protease inhibitor: Tipranavir/ritonavir | Saquinavir Combining saquinavir with tipranavir/ritonavir is not recommended. HIV-1 fusion inhibitor: Enfuvirtide Saquinavir soft gel capsules/ritonavir \\342\\206\\224 enfuvirtide No clinically significant interaction was noted from a study in 12 HIV-1 subjects who received enfuvirtide concomitantly with saquinavir soft gel capsules/ritonavir 1000/100 mg bid. No dose adjustments are required. HIV-1 CCR5 antagonist: Maraviroc | Maraviroc Maraviroc dose should be 150 mg twice daily when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. For further details see complete prescribing information for Selzentry(R) (maraviroc). Other Agents Ibutilide Sotalol Use with caution. Additive effects on QT and/or PR interval prolongation may occur with INVIRASE/ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. Anticoagulant: Warfarin | Warfarin Concentrations of warfarin may be affected. It is recommended that INR (international normalized ratio) be monitored. Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin | Saquinavir Effect on carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin is not well established Use with caution. Saquinavir may be less effective due to decreased saquinavir plasma concentrations in patients taking these agents concomitantly. Anti-gout: Colchicine | Colchicine Treatment of gout flares-coadministration of colchicine in patients on INVIRASE/ritonavir: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) \\303\\227 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Dose to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) coadministration of colchicine in patients on INVIRASE/ritonavir: Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Prophylaxis of gout-flares-co-administration of colchicine in patients on INVIRASE/ritonavir: If the original colchicine regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original colchicine regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Anti-infective: Clarithromycin | Saquinavir | Clarithromycin Due to the known effect of ritonavir on clarithromycin concentrations, the following dose adjustments are recommended for patients with renal impairment: For patients with CLCR 30 to 60 mL/min the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%. For patients with CLCR <30 mL/min the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 75%. No dose adjustment for patients with normal renal function is necessary. Erythromycin Halofantrine Pentamidine Use with caution. Additive effects on QT and/or PR interval prolongation may occur with INVIRASE/ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. Fusidic acid | Saquinavir | Fusidic Acid | Ritonavir Concomitant use of fusidic acid and saquinavir/ritonavir is not recommended due to potential for increased mutual toxicities. The interaction between INVIRASE/ritonavir and fusidic acid has not been formally evaluated. Co-administration of fusidic acid and INVIRASE/ritonavir can cause increased plasma concentrations of fusidic acid, saquinavir and ritonavir. Antifungal: Ketoconazole, itraconazole \\342\\206\\224 Saquinavir \\342\\206\\224 Ritonavir | Ketoconazole When INVIRASE/ritonavir and ketoconazole are coadministered, plasma concentrations of ketoconazole are increased (see Table 3 ). Hence, doses of ketoconazole or itraconazole >200 mg/day are not recommended. Antimycobacterial: Rifabutin \\342\\206\\224 Saquinavir | Rifabutin \\342\\206\\224 Ritonavir No dose adjustment of INVIRASE/ritonavir (1000/100 mg bid) is required if ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE is administered in combination with rifabutin. Dosage reduction of rifabutin by at least 75% of the usual dose of 300 mg/day is recommended (i.e., a maximum dose of 150 mg every other day or three times per week). Increased monitoring for adverse events is warranted in patients receiving the combination. Consider monitoring rifabutin concentrations to ensure adequate exposure. Antipsychotic: Quetiapine | Quetiapine Initiation of INVIRASE with ritonavir in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine drug exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking INVIRASE with ritonavir: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Benzodiazepines : Alprazolam, clorazepate, diazepam, flurazepam | Benzodiazepines Clinical significance is unknown; however, a decrease in benzodiazepine dose may be needed. Benzodiazepine : Intravenously administered Midazolam | Midazolam Midazolam is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Increases in the concentration of midazolam are expected to be significantly higher with oral than parenteral administration. Therefore, INVIRASE should not be given with orally administered midazolam [see Contraindications (4)]. If INVIRASE is coadministered with parenteral midazolam, close clinical monitoring for respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation should be exercised and dosage adjustment should be considered. Calcium channel blockers : Diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, nicardipine, nimodipine, verapamil, amlodipine, nisoldipine, isradipine | Calcium channel blockers Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring of patients is recommended. Corticosteroid: Dexamethasone | Saquinavir Use with caution. Saquinavir may be less effective due to decreased saquinavir plasma concentrations. Digitalis Glycosides: Digoxin | Digoxin Increases in serum digoxin concentration were greater in female subjects as compared to male subjects when digoxin was coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Concomitant use of INVIRASE/ritonavir with digoxin results in a significant increase in serum concentrations of digoxin. Caution should be exercised when INVIRASE/ritonavir and digoxin are coadministered; serum digoxin concentrations should be monitored and the dose of digoxin may need to be reduced when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Endothelin receptor antagonists: Bosentan | Bosentan Coadministration of bosentan in patients on INVIRASE/ritonavir: In patients who have been receiving INVIRASE/ritonavir for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of INVIRASE/ritonavir in patients on bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of INVIRASE/ritonavir. After at least 10 days following the initiation of INVIRASE/ritonavir, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Inhaled beta agonist: Salmeterol | Salmeterol Concurrent administration of salmeterol with INVIRASE/ritonavir is not recommended. The combination may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations and sinus tachycardia. Inhaled/nasal steroid: Fluticasone INVIRASE/ritonavir | Fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and INVIRASE/ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and INVIRASE/ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors : Atorvastatin | Atorvastatin Titrate atorvastatin dose carefully and use the lowest dose necessary; do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg/day. Immunosuppressants : Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, rapamycin | Immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for immunosuppressant agents when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Narcotic analgesic: Methadone | Methadone Dosage of methadone may need to be increased when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Use with caution. Additive effects on QT and/or PR interval prolongation may occur with INVIRASE/ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. Neuroleptics: Clozapine Haloperidol Mesoridazine Phenothiazines Thioridazine Ziprasidone Use with caution. Additive effects on QT and/or PR interval prolongation may occur with INVIRASE/ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. Oral contraceptives: Ethinyl estradiol | Ethinyl estradiol Alternative or additional contraceptive measures should be used when estrogen-based oral contraceptives and INVIRASE/ritonavir are coadministered. PDE5 inhibitors (phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors): Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil | Sildenafil \\342\\206\\224 Saquinavir | Vardenafil | Tadalafil Only the combination of sildenafil with saquinavir soft gelatin capsules has been studied at doses used for treatment of erectile dysfunction. May result in an increase in PDE5 inhibitor-associated adverse events, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of sildenafil (Revatio) is contraindicated when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) [see Contraindications (4)]. The following dose adjustments are recommended for use of tadalafil (Adcirca(R)) with INVIRASE/ritonavir: Coadministration of Adcirca in patients on INVIRASE/ritonavir: In patients receiving INVIRASE/ritonavir for at least one week, start Adcirca at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of INVIRASE/ritonavir in patients on Adcirca: Avoid use of Adcirca during the initiation of INVIRASE/ritonavir. Stop Adcirca at least 24 hours prior to starting INVIRASE/ritonavir. After at least one week following the initiation of INVIRASE/ritonavir, resume Adcirca at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Use of PDE5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Use sildenafil with caution at reduced doses of 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring of adverse events when administered concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Use vardenafil with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring of adverse events when administered concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Use tadalafil with caution at reduced doses of no more than 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring of adverse events when administered concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Tricyclic antidepressants : Amitriptyline, imipramine | Tricyclics Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for tricyclic antidepressants when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Proton pump inhibitors: Omeprazole | Saquinavir When INVIRASE/ritonavir is co-administered with omeprazole, saquinavir concentrations are increased significantly. If omeprazole or another proton pump inhibitor is taken concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir, caution is advised and monitoring for potential saquinavir toxicities is recommended, particularly gastrointestinal symptoms, increased triglycerides, deep vein thrombosis, and QT prolongation. Herbal Products: St. John's wort (hypericum perforatum) | Saquinavir Coadministration may lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to INVIRASE or to the class of protease inhibitors. Garlic Capsules | Saquinavir Coadministration of garlic capsules and saquinavir is not recommended due to the potential for garlic capsules to induce the metabolism of saquinavir which may result in sub-therapeutic saquinavir concentrations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Concomitant Therapy with Ritonavir Adverse Reactions In combination with ritonavir the recommended dose of INVIRASE is 1000 mg two times daily with ritonavir 100 mg two times daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Table 6 lists grade 2, 3 and 4 adverse events that occurred in >=2% of patients receiving saquinavir soft gel capsules with ritonavir (1000/100 mg bid). Table 6 Grade 2, 3 and 4 Adverse Events (All CausalityIncludes events with unknown relationship to study drug) Reported in >=2% of Adult Patients in the MaxCmin 1 Study of saquinavir soft gel capsules in Combination with Ritonavir 1000/100 mg bid Adverse Events Saquinavir soft gel capsules 1000 mg plus Ritonavir 100 mg bid (48 weeks) N=148 n (%=n/N) Endocrine Disorders Diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia 4 (2.7) Lipodystrophy 8 (5.4) Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 16 (10.8) Vomiting 11 (7.4) Diarrhea 12 (8.1) Abdominal Pain 9 (6.1) Constipation 3 (2.0) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 9 (6.1) Fever 5 (3.4) Musculoskeletal Disorders Back Pain 3 (2.0) Respiratory Disorders Pneumonia 8 (5.4) Bronchitis 4 (2.7) Influenza 4 (2.7) Sinusitis 4 (2.7) Dermatological Disorders Rash 5 (3.4) Pruritus 5 (3.4) Dry lips/skin 3 (2.0) Eczema 3 (2.0) Limited experience is available from three studies investigating the pharmacokinetics of the INVIRASE 500 mg film-coated tablet compared to the INVIRASE 200 mg capsule in healthy volunteers (n=140). In two of these studies saquinavir was boosted with ritonavir; in the other study, saquinavir was administered as single drug. The INVIRASE tablet and the capsule formulations were similarly tolerated. The most common adverse events were gastrointestinal disorders (such as diarrhea). Similar bioavailability was demonstrated and no clinically significant differences in saquinavir exposures were seen. Thus, similar safety profiles are expected between the two INVIRASE formulations. In a study investigating the drug-drug interaction of rifampin 600 mg/day daily and INVIRASE 1000 mg/ritonavir 100 mg twice daily (ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE) involving 28 healthy volunteers, 11 of 17 healthy volunteers (65%) exposed concomitantly to rifampin and ritonavir-boosted INVIRASE developed severe hepatocellular toxicity which presented as increased hepatic transaminases. In some subjects, transaminases increased up to >20-fold the upper limit of normal and were associated with gastrointestinal symptoms, including abdominal pain, gastritis, nausea, and vomiting. Following discontinuation of all three drugs, clinical symptoms abated and the increased hepatic transaminases normalized (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Additional Adverse Reactions Reported with Saquinavir Additionally, adverse experiences of any intensity, at least remotely related to saquinavir, that were reported from clinical trials using INVIRASE or saquinavir soft gel capsules with or without ritonavir, are listed below by body system: Body as a Whole: allergic reaction, anorexia, asthenia, chest pain, drug fever, edema, fatigue, fever, intoxication, mucosa damage, parasites external, retrosternal pain, shivering, wasting syndrome, weakness generalized, weight decrease, redistribution/accumulation of body fat (see PRECAUTIONS: Fat Redistribution ) Cardiovascular: cyanosis, heart murmur, heart valve disorder, hypertension, hypotension, peripheral vasoconstriction, syncope, thrombophlebitis, vein distended Endocrine/Metabolic: appetite decrease, appetite disturbance, dehydration, diabetes mellitus, dry eye syndrome, hypercalcemia, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypernatremia, hyperphosphatemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, weight increase, xerophthalmia Gastrointestinal: ascites, abdominal discomfort, buccal mucosa ulceration, cheilitis, colic abdominal, constipation, dyspepsia, dysphagia, esophagitis, eructation, exacerbation of chronic liver disease with grade 4 LFT, feces bloodstained, feces discolored, flatulence, gastralgia, gastritis, gastrointestinal inflammation, intestinal obstruction, gingivitis, glossitis, hemorrhage rectum, hemorrhoids, hepatitis, hepatomegaly, hepatosplenomegaly, hyperbilirubinemia, infectious diarrhea, jaundice, liver enzyme disorder, melena, pain pelvic, painful defecation, pancreatitis, parotid disorder, portal hypertension, right and left upper quadrant abdominal pain, salivary glands disorder, stomach upset, stomatitis, toothache, tooth disorder, vomiting, frequent bowel movements Hematologic: anemia, bleeding dermal, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, microhemorrhages, neutropenia, pancytopenia, splenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, lymphadenopathy Infections and Infestations: abscess, angina tonsillaris, candidiasis, cellulitis, herpes simplex, herpes zoster, infection bacterial, infection mycotic, infection staphylococcal, influenza, moniliasis Investigations: ALT increase, AST increase, GGT increase, increased alkaline phosphatase, increased creatine phosphokinase, increased gamma GT, isolated increase in transaminase, raised amylase, raised LDH, TSH increase Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis, back pain, cramps leg, cramps muscle, creatine phosphokinase increased, musculoskeletal disorders, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, stiffness, tissue changes, trauma Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified: acute myeloblastic leukemia Neurological: ataxia, confusion, convulsions, dizziness, dysarthria, dysesthesia, extremity numbness, headache, heart rate disorder, hyperesthesia, hyperreflexia, hyporeflexia, light-headed feeling, mouth dry, myelopolyradiculoneuritis, numbness face, pain facial, paresis, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, poliomyelitis, prickly sensation, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, seizures, spasms, intracranial hemorrhage leading to death, tremor, unconsciousness Psychological: agitation, amnesia, anxiety, anxiety attack, depression, dreaming excessive, euphoria, hallucination, insomnia, intellectual ability reduced, irritability, lethargy, libido disorder, overdose effect, psychic disorder, psychosis, somnolence, speech disorder, suicide attempt Reproductive System: impotence, prostate enlarged, vaginal discharge Respiratory: bronchitis, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, hemoptysis, laryngitis, pharyngitis, pneumonia, pulmonary disease, respiratory disorder, rhinitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection Skin and Appendages: acne, alopecia, bullous skin eruption and polyarthritis, chalazion, dermatitis, dermatitis seborrheic, eczema, erythema, folliculitis, furunculosis, hair changes, hot flushes, nail disorder, night sweats, papillomatosis, photosensitivity reaction, pigment changes skin, rash maculopapular, severe cutaneous reaction associated with increased liver function tests, skin disorder, skin nodule, skin ulceration, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, sweating increased, urticaria, verruca, xeroderma Special Senses: blepharitis, earache, ear pressure, eye irritation, hearing decreased, otitis, taste alteration, tinnitus, visual disturbance Urinary System: micturition disorder, nephrolithiasis, renal calculus, urinary tract bleeding, urinary tract infection Postmarketing Experience Additional adverse events that have been observed during the postmarketing period are similar to those seen in clinical trials with INVIRASE and saquinavir soft gel capsules alone or in combination with ritonavir."$$
"Drug Interactions Drug interaction studies have been completed with INVIRASE and saquinavir soft gel capsules. Observations from drug interaction studies with saquinavir soft gel capsules may not be predictive for INVIRASE/ritonavir. Because ritonavir is coadministered, prescribers should also refer to the prescribing information for ritonavir regarding drug interactions associated with this agent. The metabolism of saquinavir is mediated by cytochrome P450, with the specific isoenzyme CYP3A4 responsible for 90% of the hepatic metabolism. Additionally, saquinavir is a substrate for P-Glycoprotein (Pgp). Therefore, drugs that affect CYP3A4 and/or Pgp, may modify the pharmacokinetics of saquinavir. Similarly, saquinavir might also modify the pharmacokinetics of other drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4 or Pgp. Drugs that are contraindicated specifically due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse events are listed in Table 4 under CONTRAINDICATIONS. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction studies or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of efficacy. Drug interactions that have been established based on drug interaction studies are listed with the pharmacokinetic results in Table 2 , which summarizes the effect of saquinavir, administered as saquinavir soft gel capsules or INVIRASE, on the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of coadministered drugs and Table 3 , which summarizes the effect of coadministered drugs on the geometric mean AUC and Cmax of saquinavir. Clinical dose recommendations can be found in Table 5 . The magnitude of the interactions may be different when INVIRASE is given with ritonavir (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). When coadministering INVIRASE/ritonavir with any agent having a narrow therapeutic margin, such as anticoagulants, anticonvulsants, and antiarrhythmics, special attention is warranted. With some agents, the metabolism may be induced, resulting in decreased concentrations. Examples and clinical dose recommendations can be found in Table 5 . Table 5 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or on Predicted Interaction with INVIRASE/ritonavir Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Saquinavir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment HIV-Antiviral Agents Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor: DelavirdineINVIRASE/ritonavir interaction has not been evaluated. | Saquinavir Effect on delavirdine is not well established Appropriate doses of the combination with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor: EfavirenzSee CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics , Table 2 and Table 3 for magnitude of interactions., nevirapine | Saquinavir \\342\\206\\224 Efavirenz Appropriate doses of the combination of efavirenz or nevirapine and INVIRASE/ritonavir (1000/100 mg bid) with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. HIV protease inhibitor: Atazanavir INVIRASE/ritonavir | Saquinavir | Ritonavir \\342\\206\\224 Atazanavir Appropriate dosing recommendations for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established. When 1600 mg INVIRASE/100 mg ritonavir and 300 mg atazanavir were coadministered, plasma concentrations of saquinavir and ritonavir were increased. HIV protease inhibitor: Indinavir | Saquinavir Effect on indinavir is not well established Appropriate doses of the combination of indinavir and INVIRASE/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. HIV protease inhibitor: Lopinavir/ritonavir (coformulated capsule) \\342\\206\\224 Saquinavir \\342\\206\\224 Lopinavir | Ritonavir Evidence from several clinical trials indicates that saquinavir concentrations achieved with the saquinavir and lopinavir/ritonavir combination are similar to those achieved following saquinavir/ritonavir 1000/100 mg. The recommended dose for this combination is saquinavir 1000 mg plus lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg bid. HIV protease inhibitor: Tipranavir/ritonavir | Saquinavir Combining saquinavir with tipranavir/ritonavir is not recommended. HIV fusion inhibitor: Enfuvirtide Saquinavir soft gel capsules/ritonavir \\342\\206\\224 enfuvirtide No clinically significant interaction was noted from a study in 12 HIV patients who received enfuvirtide concomitantly with saquinavir soft gel capsules/ritonavir 1000/100 mg bid. No dose adjustments are required. Other Agents Antiarrhythmics: Lidocaine (systemic) | Antiarrhythmics Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring, if available, is recommended for antiarrhythmics given with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Anticoagulant: Warfarin | Warfarin Concentrations of warfarin may be affected. It is recommended that INR (international normalized ratio) be monitored. Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin | Saquinavir Effect on carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin is not well established Use with caution, saquinavir may be less effective due to decreased saquinavir plasma concentrations in patients taking these agents concomitantly. Anti-infective: Clarithromycin | Saquinavir | Clarithromycin Appropriate doses of the combination of clarithromycin and INVIRASE/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Due to the known effect of ritonavir on clarithromycin concentrations, the following dose adjustments are recommended: For patients with renal impairment, the following dosage adjustments should be considered: For patients with CLCR 30 to 60 mL/min the dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%. For patients with CLCR <30 mL/min the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 75%. No dose adjustment for patients with normal renal function is necessary. Antifungal: Ketoconazole, itraconazole \\342\\206\\224 Saquinavir \\342\\206\\224 Ritonavir | Ketoconazole Appropriate doses of the combination of ketoconazole or itraconazole and INVIRASE/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. When INVIRASE/ritonavir and ketoconazole are coadministered, plasma concentration of ketoconazole was increased (see Table 2 ). Hence, doses of ketoconazole > 200 mg/day are not recommended. Antimycobacterial: Rifabutin | Saquinavir | Rifabutin Appropriate doses of the combination of rifabutin and INVIRASE/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Benzodiazepines: Alprazolam, clorazepate, diazepam, flurazepam | Benzodiazepines Clinical significance is unknown; however, a decrease in benzodiazepine dose may be needed. Benzodiazepine : Intravenously administered Midazolam | Midazolam Midazolam is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Increases in the concentration of midazolam are expected to be significantly higher with oral than parenteral administration. Therefore, INVIRASE should not be given with orally administered midazolam [see Contraindications (4)]. If INVIRASE is coadministered with parenteral midazolam, close clinical monitoring for respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation should be exercised and dosage adjustment should be considered. Calcium channel blockers : Diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, nicardipine, nimodipine, verapamil, amlodipine, nisoldipine, isradipine | Calcium channel blockers Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring of patients is recommended. Corticosteroid: Dexamethasone | Saquinavir Use with caution, saquinavir may be less effective due to decreased saquinavir plasma concentrations in patients taking these agents concomitantly. Digitalis Glycosides: Digoxin | Digoxin Increases in serum digoxin concentration were greater in female subjects as compared to male subjects when digoxin was coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Concomitant use of INVIRASE/ritonavir with digoxin results in a significant increase in serum concentrations of digoxin. Caution should be exercised when INVIRASE/ritonavir and digoxin are coadministered; serum digoxin concentrations should be monitored and the dose of digoxin may need to be reduced when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir (see WARNINGS ). Inhaled/nasal steroid: Fluticasone INVIRASE/ritonavir | Fluticasone Concomitant use of fluticasone propionate and INVIRASE/ritonavir may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and INVIRASE/ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects (see WARNINGS ). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors : Atorvastatin, rosuvastatin | Atorvastatin | Rosuvastatin Use lowest possible dose of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin with careful monitoring, or consider other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors such as fluvastatin in combination with Invirase/ritonavir (see WARNINGS ). Immunosuppressants : Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, rapamycin | Immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for immunosuppressant agents when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Narcotic analgesic: Methadone | Methadone Dosage of methadone may need to be increased when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Oral contraceptives: Ethinyl estradiol | Ethinyl estradiol Alternative or additional contraceptive measures should be used when estrogen-based oral contraceptives and INVIRASE/ritonavir are coadministered. PDE5 inhibitors (phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors): Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil | Sildenafil \\342\\206\\224 Saquinavir | Vardenafil | Tadalafil Use sildenafil with caution at reduced doses of 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring of adverse events when administered concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Use vardenafil with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring of adverse events when administered concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Use tadalafil with caution at reduced doses of no more than 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring of adverse events when administered concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Antidepressant: Trazodone | Trazodone Concomitant use of trazodone and INVIRASE/ritonavir may increase plasma concentration of trazodone. Adverse events of nausea, dizziness, hypotension and syncope have been observed following coadministration of trazodone and ritonavir. If trazodone is used with a CYP3A4 inhibitor such as INVIRASE/ritonavir, the combination should be used with caution and lower dose of trazodone should be considered. Tricyclic antidepressants : Amitriptyline, imipramine | Tricyclics Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for tricyclic antidepressants when coadministered with INVIRASE/ritonavir. Proton pump inhibitors: Omeprazole | Saquinavir When INVIRASE/ritonavir is co-administered with omeprazole, saquinavir concentrations are increased significantly. If omeprazole or another proton pump inhibitor is taken concomitantly with INVIRASE/ritonavir, caution is advised and monitoring for potential saquinavir toxicities is recommended, particularly gastrointestinal symptoms, increased triglycerides, and deep vein thrombosis. Herbal Products: St. John's wort (hypericum perforatum) | Saquinavir Coadministration may lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to INVIRASE or to the class of protease inhibitors (see WARNINGS ). Garlic Capsules | Saquinavir Coadministration of garlic capsules and saquinavir is not recommended due to the potential for garlic capsules to induce the metabolism of saquinavir which may result in sub-therapeutic saquinavir concentrations."$$
