"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -May cause hypertension above 2.5 mg/day (5.1) -May cause serotonin syndrome when used with antidepressants (5.2) -May cause falling asleep during activities of daily living (5.3) -May cause hypotension/orthostatic hypotension (5.4) -May cause or exacerbate dyskinesia (5.5) -May cause hallucinations and psychotic-like behavior (5.6) -May cause problems with impulse control and compulsive behaviors (5.7) -Abrupt discontinuation may cause hyperpyrexia and confusion (5.8) -Increased risk of melanoma (5.9) -May cause irritation of the buccal mucosa (5.10) -Increased risk for phenylketonuric patients (5.11) 5.1 Hypertension ZELAPAR should not be used at daily doses exceeding those recommended (2.5 mg/day) because of the risks associated with non-selective inhibition of MAO [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. The selectivity of ZELAPAR for MAO-B may not be absolute even at the recommended daily dose of 2.5 mg a day. The selectivity of MAO-B inhibitors, typically decreases and it is ultimately lost as the dose is increased beyond recommended doses. Hypertensive reactions associated with ingestion of tyramine containing foods have been reported even in patients taking the recommended daily dose of swallowed selegiline, a dose which is generally believed to be selective for MAO-B. Selectivity for MAO-B inhibition is gradually lost with increasing daily doses. An increase in tyramine sensitivity for blood pressure responses appears to begin at a dose of 5 mg ZELAPAR daily [see Drug Interactions (7.5) ]. However, the precise dose at which ZELAPAR becomes a non-selective inhibitor of all MAO enzymes in individual patients is unknown. Reports of hypertensive reactions have occurred in patients who ingested tyramine-containing consumables (i.e., food or drink) while receiving swallowed selegiline at the recommended dose (a dose believed to be relatively selective for MAO-B). The safe use of ZELAPAR at doses above 2.5 mg daily without dietary tyramine restrictions has not been established. A pharmacodynamic study showed increased tyramine sensitivity for increasing blood pressure and decreased selectivity for MAO-B with dosing above the recommended level (2.5 mg daily)[see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Uncontrolled hypertension has been reported when taking the recommended dose of swallowed selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine). After starting ZELAPAR, monitor patients for new onset hypertension or exacerbation of hypertension that is not adequately controlled. 5.2 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome and hyperpyrexia have been reported with the combined treatment of an antidepressant (e.g., selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors-SSRIs, serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors-SNRIs, tricyclic antidepressants, tetracyclic antidepressants, triazolopyridine antidepressants) and a non-selective MAOI (e.g., phenelzine, tranylcypromine) or selective MAO-B inhibitors, such as selegiline (Eldepryl), rasagiline (AZILECT), and Zydis selegiline (ZELAPAR). Serotonin syndrome is a potentially serious condition, which can result in death. Typical clinical signs and symptoms include behavioral and cognitive/mental status changes (e.g., confusion, hypomania, hallucinations, agitation, delirium, headache, and coma), autonomic effects (e.g., syncope, shivering, sweating, high fever/hyperthermia, hypertension, hypotension, tachycardia, nausea, diarrhea), and somatic effects (e.g., muscular rigidity, myoclonus, muscle twitching, hyperreflexia manifested by clonus, and tremor). In the post-marketing period, fatal and non-fatal cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients treated with antidepressants concomitantly with ZELAPAR [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.2, 7.3)]. Clinical studies of ZELAPAR did not allow concomitant use of any selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (e.g., fluoxetine-Prozac, fluvoxamine-Luvox, paroxetine-Paxil, sertraline, venlafaxine-Effexor, or nefazadone-Serzone) or any non-selective serotonin reuptake inhibiting antidepressant drug (except when taken at a low dose and only at night for the purpose of effective sleep) with ZELAPAR. Because the mechanisms responsible for these reactions are not fully understood, avoid the combination of ZELAPAR with any antidepressant. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of ZELAPAR and initiation of treatment with a SSRI, SNRI, tricyclic, tetracyclic, or triazolopyridine antidepressant. In patients taking antidepressants with a long half-life (e.g., fluoxetine and its active metabolite), allow at least five weeks (perhaps longer, especially if fluoxetine has been prescribed chronically and/or at higher doses) to elapse between discontinuation of fluoxetine and initiation of ZELAPAR [see Drug Interactions (7.6) ]. 5.3 Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients with Parkinson's disease treated with ZELAPAR or other drugs increasing dopaminergic tone have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living, including the operation of motor vehicles, which sometimes resulted in accidents. Although many of these patients reported somnolence, some did not perceive warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, and believed that they were alert immediately prior to the event. Some of these events have been reported as late as one year after initiation of treatment. It has been reported that falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living always occurs in a setting of pre-existing somnolence, although patients may not give such a history. For this reason, prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness especially since some of the events occur well after the start of treatment. Somnolence may occur in patients receiving ZELAPAR. There was an increased risk for somnolence in geriatric patients (>65 years) vs non-geriatric patients treated with ZELAPAR. Prescribers should also be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. Patients should be advised to exercise caution while driving, operating machines, or working at heights during treatment with ZELAPAR. Patients who have already experienced somnolence and/or an episode of sudden sleep onset should not participate in these activities during treatment with ZELAPAR. Before initiating treatment with ZELAPAR, advise patients about the potential to develop drowsiness and specifically ask about factors that may increase this risk, such as concomitant sedating medications and the presence of sleep disorders. If a patient develops daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.), ZELAPAR should ordinarily be discontinued. If a decision is made to continue ZELAPAR, patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities. There is insufficient information to establish whether dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. 5.4 Hypotension/Orthostatic Hypotension Assessments of orthostatic (supine and standing) blood pressures at different times throughout the 12 week study period in two controlled trials showed that the frequency of orthostatic hypotension (>20 mm Hg decrease in systolic blood pressure and/or >10 mm Hg decrease in diastolic blood pressure) was greater with ZELAPAR treatment than with placebo treatment. Patients taking ZELAPAR were most likely to experience a decline in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at 8 weeks (2 weeks after initiating 2.5 mg ZELAPAR). At that time, the incidence of systolic orthostatic hypotension was about 21% in ZELAPAR-treated patients and 9% in placebo-treated patients. The incidence of diastolic orthostatic hypotension was about 12% in ZELAPAR-treated patients and about 4% in placebo-treated patients. Thus, it appears that there may be an increased risk for orthostatic hypotension in the period after increasing the daily dose of ZELAPAR(R) from 1.25 to 2.5 mg. The incidence of orthostatic hypotension was higher in geriatric patients (>=65 years) than in non-geriatric patients. In the geriatric patients, orthostatic hypotension occurred in about 3% of ZELAPAR-treated patients compared to 0% of placebo-treated patients. 5.5 Dyskinesia ZELAPAR may potentiate dopaminergic side effects of levodopa and may cause dyskinesia or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia. In controlled trials, the incidence of dyskinesia was 6% in ZELAPAR-treated patients and 3% in placebo-treated patients. Decreasing the dose of levodopa may lessen dyskinesia. The incidence of dyskinesia causing study discontinuation was greater on ZELAPAR than on placebo. 5.6 Hallucinations/Psychotic-Like Behavior In controlled trials, hallucination was reported by 4% of ZELAPAR-treated patients and 2% in placebo-treated patients. Hallucinations led to drug discontinuation and premature withdrawal from clinical trials in about 1% of ZELAPAR-treated patients, compared to no patient on placebo. Postmarketing reports indicate that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, which may be severe, including psychotic-like behavior during ZELAPAR treatment or after starting or increasing the dose of ZELAPAR. Other drugs prescribed to improve the symptoms of Parkinson's disease can have similar effects on thinking and behavior. This abnormal thinking and behavior can consist of one or more of a variety of manifestations including paranoid ideation, delusions, hallucinations, confusion, psychotic-like behavior, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium. Patients with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with ZELAPAR because of the risk of exacerbating psychosis. In addition, certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease and may decrease the effectiveness of ZELAPAR [see Drug Interactions (7.8) ]. 5.7 Impulse Control/Compulsive Behaviors Case reports suggest that patients can experience intense urges to gamble, increased sexual urges, intense urges to spend money, binge eating, and/or other intense urges, and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications, including ZELAPAR, that increase central dopaminergic tone and that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. In some cases, although not all, these urges were reported to have stopped when the dose was reduced or the medication was discontinued. Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal, it is important for prescribers to specifically ask patients or their caregivers about the development of new or increased gambling urges, sexual urges, uncontrolled spending, binge eating, or other urges while being treated with ZELAPAR. Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking ZELAPAR. 5.8 Withdrawal Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Although not reported with ZELAPAR in the clinical development program, a symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome (characterized by elevated temperature, muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, and autonomic instability), with no other obvious etiology, has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in antiparkinsonian therapy. 5.9 Melanoma Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson's disease have a higher risk (2- to approximately 6-fold higher) of developing melanoma than the general population. Whether the increased risk observed was due to Parkinson's disease or other factors, such as drugs used to treat Parkinson's disease, is unclear. For the reasons stated above, patients and providers are advised to monitor for melanomas frequently and on a regular basis when using ZELAPAR for any indication. Ideally, periodic skin examinations should be performed by appropriately qualified individuals (e.g., dermatologists). 5.10 Irritation of the Buccal Mucosa In the controlled clinical trials, periodic examinations of the tongue and oral mucosa were performed. At the end of the study, the frequency of mild oropharyngeal abnormality (e.g., swallowing pain, mouth pain, discrete areas of focal reddening, multiple foci of reddening, edema, and/or ulceration) in patients without similar abnormality at baseline was 10% in ZELAPAR-treated patients compared to 3% in placebo-treated patients. 5.11 Risk for Phenylketonuric Patients It is important to note that each ZELAPAR tablet contains 1.25 mg phenylalanine (a component of aspartame). Patients taking the 2.5 mg dose of ZELAPAR will receive 2.5 mg phenylalanine. 5.12 Effect on Renal Function Small increments in serum BUN and creatinine have been observed in patients treated with high dose ZELAPAR (10 mg daily; 4 times the recommended dose).",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of labeling. -Risk for Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -Risk of Serotonin Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -Hypotension/Orthostatic Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] -Dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] -Hallucinations/Psychotic-Like Behavior [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] -Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] -Withdrawal Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] -Melanoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] -Irritation of the Buccal Mucosa [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] -Risk for Phenylketonuric Patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] -Effect on Renal Function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] The most common adverse reactions (incidence at least 3% greater than on placebo) are constipation, skin disorders, vomiting, dizziness, dyskinesia, insomnia, dyspnea, myalgia, and rash (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1-800-321-4576 or contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the incidence of adverse reactions (number of unique patients experiencing an adverse reaction per total number of patients treated) observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the incidence of adverse reactions observed in clinical practice. Because the controlled trials performed during premarketing development both used a titration design (1.25 mg per day for 6 weeks, followed by 2.5 mg per day for 6 weeks), with a resultant confounding of time and dose, it was impossible to adequately evaluate the effects of dose on the incidence of adverse events. The most common adverse reactions (treatment difference incidence at least 3% greater than placebo incidence) reported in the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials during ZELAPAR treatment were constipation, skin disorders, vomiting, dizziness, dyskinesia, insomnia, dyspnea, myalgia, and rash (See Table 1). Of the 194 patients treated with ZELAPAR in the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, 5% discontinued due to adverse reactions compared to 1% of the 98 patients who received placebo. Most common adverse reactions causing discontinuation of treatment included dizziness, chest pain, accidental injury, and myasthenia. Incidence in controlled clinical trials Table 1 lists the adverse events reported in the placebo-controlled trials after at least one dose of ZELAPAR (incidence 2% or greater). Table 1: Treatment-Emergent Adverse EventsPatients may have reported multiple adverse experiences during the study or at discontinuation; thus patients may be included in more than one category. Incidence in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials (Events >=2% of Patients Treated with ZELAPAR and Numerically More Frequent than the Placebo Group) Body System/ Adverse Event ZELAPAR Patients received concomitant levodopa. 1.25/2.5 mg N=194 % Placebo N=98 % Body as a Whole Back Pain 5 3 Chest Pain 2 0 Pain 8 7 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 3 2 Digestive System Constipation 4 0 Diarrhea 2 1 Dysphagia 2 1 Dyspepsia 5 3 Flatulence 2 1 Nausea 11 9 Stomatitis 5 4 Tooth Disorder 2 1 Vomiting 3 0 Hemic and Lymphatic System Ecchymosis 2 0 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Hypokalemia 2 0 Musculoskeletal System Leg Cramps 3 1 Myalgia 3 0 Nervous System Ataxia 3 1 Depression 2 1 Dizziness 11 8 Dry Mouth 4 2 Dyskinesia 6 3 Hallucinations 4 2 Headache 7 6 Insomnia 7 4 Somnolence 3 2 Tremor 3 1 Respiratory System Dyspnea 3 0 Pharyngitis 4 2 Rhinitis 7 6 Skin and Appendages Rash 4 1 Skin DisordersSkin disorders represent any new skin abnormality that would not be characterized as rash or neoplastic lesion. These include events such as skin ulcer, fungal dermatitis, skin hypertrophy, contact dermatitis, herpes simplex, dry skin, sweating, urticaria, and pruritus. 6 2 Treatment-emergent adverse reactions for certain events were reported at a higher frequency by patients >=65 years of age compared to patients <65 years [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. No consistent differences in the incidences of adverse reactions were observed between male and female patients. There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse reactions."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Meperidine Serious, sometimes fatal reactions have been reported in patients treated with concomitant meperidine (e.g., Demerol and other tradenames) and MAO inhibitors including selective MAO-B inhibitors [see Contraindications (4) ]. 7.2 Dextromethorphan The combination of MAO inhibitors and dextromethorphan has been reported to cause brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior. Therefore, in view of ZELAPAR's MAO inhibitory activity, dextromethorphan should not be used concomitantly with ZELAPAR [see Contraindications (4) ]. 7.3 MAO Inhibitors ZELAPAR should not be administered along with other selegiline products (e.g., EMSAM or ELDEPRYL(R)) because of the increased risk of non-selective MAO inhibition that may lead to a hypertensive crisis [see Contraindications (4) ]. 7.4 Sympathomimetic Medications Uncontrolled hypertension, including hypertensive crisis, has been reported when taking the recommended dose of swallowed selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine). 7.5 Tyramine/Selegiline Interaction The enzyme, monoamine oxidase (MAO) (primarily type A), in the gastrointestinal tract and liver provides protection from ingested amines (e.g., tyramine) that, if absorbed, have the capacity to cause uncontrolled hypertension (tyramine reaction). If MAO is inhibited in the gastrointestinal tract and liver, ingestion of exogenous amines contained in some foods such as fermented cheese, herring, or over-the-counter cough/cold medicines may be absorbed systemically causing release of norepinephrine and a rise in systemic blood pressure with the potential for uncontrolled hypertension. Selective MAO-B inhibitors lose their selectivity for MAO-B when taken in doses higher than recommended. Non-selective MAO-A inhibitors or MAO-B inhibitors in higher than recommended doses may result in MAO-A inhibition in the gastrointestinal tract and liver. Results of a tyramine challenge study indicate that ZELAPAR is relatively selective for MAO-B at the recommended dose. In most cases, there is no need for dietary tyramine restriction in patients prescribed ZELAPAR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] at the recommended dose. Because the selectivity for inhibiting MAO-B diminishes as the dose of ZELAPAR is increased above the recommended daily dose, patients should not take more than 2.5 mg of ZELAPAR daily. Reports of hypertensive reactions have occurred in patients who ingested tyramine-containing consumables (i.e., food or drink) while receiving swallowed selegiline at the recommended dose (a dose believed to be relatively selective for MAO-B). Hypertensive crisis has also been reported with ZELAPAR use that was not above the recommended dosing. Uncontrolled hypertension has been reported when taking the recommended dose of swallowed selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine). 7.6 Tricyclic Antidepressants and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and swallowed selegiline, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and swallowed selegiline [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.7 Drugs that Induce CYP450 Adequate studies have not been done investigating the effect of CYP3A4-inducers on selegiline. Drugs that induce CYP3A4 (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, nafcillin, phenobarbital, and rifampin) should be used with caution. 7.8 Dopaminergic Antagonists It is possible that dopamine antagonists, such as antipsychotics or metoclopramide, could diminish the effectiveness of ZELAPAR.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS:"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Introduction The number of patients who received selegiline in prospectively monitored premarketing studies is limited. While other sources of information about the use of selegiline are available (e.g., literature reports, foreign post-marketing reports, etc.) they do not provide the kind of information necessary to estimate the incidence of adverse events. Thus, overall incidence figures for adverse reactions associated with the use of selegiline cannot be provided. Many of the adverse reactions seen have also been reported as symptoms of dopamine excess. Moreover, the importance and severity of various reactions reported often cannot be ascertained. One index of relative importance, however, is whether or not a reaction caused treatment discontinuation. In prospective premarketing studies, the following events led, in decreasing order of frequency, to discontinuation of treatment with selegiline: nausea, hallucinations, confusion, depression, loss of balance, insomnia, orthostatic hypotension, increased akinetic involuntary movements, agitation, arrhythmia, bradykinesia, chorea, delusions, hypertension, new or increased angina pectoris and syncope. Events reported only once as a cause of discontinuation are ankle edema, anxiety, burning lips/mouth, constipation, drowsiness/lethargy, dystonia, excess perspiration, increased freezing, gastrointestinal bleeding, hair loss, increased tremor, nervousness, weakness and weight loss. Experience with selegiline hydrochloride obtained in parallel, placebo controlled, randomized studies provides only a limited basis for estimates of adverse reaction rates. The following reactions that occurred with greater frequency among the 49 patients assigned to selegiline as compared to the 50 patients assigned to placebo in the only parallel, placebo-controlled trial performed in patients with Parkinson's disease are shown in the following Table. None of these adverse reactions led to a discontinuation of treatment. INCIDENCE OF TREATMENT-EMERGENT ADVERSE EXPERIENCES IN THE PLACEBO-CONTROLLED CLINICAL TRIAL Adverse Event Number of Patients Reporting Events selegiline hydrochloride N = 49 placebo N = 50 Nausea 10 3 Dizziness/Light-headed/Fainting 7 1 Abdominal Pain 4 2 Confusion 3 0 Hallucinations 3 1 Dry mouth 3 1 Vivid Dreams 2 0 Dyskinesias 2 5 Headache 2 1 The following events were reported once in either or both groups: Ache, generalized 1 0 Anxiety/Tension 1 1 Anemia 0 1 Diarrhea 1 0 Hair Loss 0 1 Insomnia 1 1 Lethargy 1 0 Leg pain 1 0 Low back pain 1 0 Malaise 0 1 Palpitations 1 0 Urinary Retention 1 0 Weight Loss 1 0 In all prospectively monitored clinical investigations, enrolling approximately 920 patients, the following adverse events, classified by body system, were reported. Central Nervous System: Motor/Coordination/Extrapyramidal: increased tremor, chorea, loss of balance, restlessness, blepharospasm, increased bradykinesia, facial grimace, falling down, heavy leg, muscle twitch1, myoclonic jerks1, stiff neck, tardive dyskinesia, dystonic symptoms, dyskinesia, involuntary movements, freezing, festination, increased apraxia, muscle cramps. Mental Status/Behavioral/Psychiatric: hallucinations, dizziness, confusion, anxiety, depression, drowsiness, behavior/mood change, dreams/nightmares, tiredness, delusions, disorientation, lightheadedness, impaired memory1, increased energy1, transient high1, hollow feeling, lethargy/malaise, apathy, overstimulation, vertigo, personality change, sleep disturbance, restlessness, weakness, transient irritability. Pain/Altered Sensation: headache, back pain, leg pain, tinnitus, migraine, supraorbital pain, throat burning, generalized ache, chills, numbness of toes/fingers, taste disturbance. Autonomic Nervous System: dry mouth, blurred vision, sexual dysfunction. Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension, hypertension, arrhythmia, palpitations, new or increased angina pectoris, hypotension, tachycardia, peripheral edema, sinus bradycardia, syncope. Gastrointestinal: nausea/vomiting, constipation, weight loss, anorexia, poor appetite, dysphagia, diarrhea, heartburn, rectal bleeding, bruxism1, gastrointestinal bleeding (exacerbation of preexisting ulcer disease). Genitourinary/Gynecologic/Endocrine: slow urination, transient anorgasmia1, nocturia, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, decreased penile sensationindicates events reported only at doses greater than 10 mg/day., urinary frequency. Skin and Appendages: increased sweating, diaphoresis, facial hair, hair loss, hematoma, rash, photosensitivity. Miscellaneous: asthma, diplopia, shortness of breath, speech affected. Post-Marketing Reports The following experiences were described in spontaneous post-marketing reports. These reports do not provide sufficient information to establish a clear causal relationship with the use of selegiline hydrochloride. CNS: Seizure in dialyzed chronic renal failure patient on concomitant medications."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Introduction The number of patients who received selegiline in prospectively monitored pre-marketing studies is limited. While other sources of information about the use of selegiline are available (e.g., literature reports, foreign post-marketing reports, etc.) they do not provide the kind of information necessary to estimate the incidence of adverse events. Thus, overall incidence figures for adverse reactions associated with the use of selegiline cannot be provided. Many of the adverse reactions seen have also been reported as symptoms of dopamine excess. Moreover, the importance and severity of various reactions reported often cannot be ascertained. One index of relative importance, however, is whether or not a reaction caused treatment discontinuation. In prospective pre-marketing studies, the following events led, in decreasing order of frequency, to discontinuation of treatment with selegiline: nausea, hallucinations, confusion, depression, loss of balance, insomnia, orthostatic hypotension, increased akinetic involuntary movements, agitation, arrhythmia, bradykinesia, chorea, delusions, hypertension, new or increased angina pectoris, and syncope. Events reported only once as a cause of discontinuation are ankle edema, anxiety, burning lips/mouth, constipation, drowsiness/lethargy, dystonia, excess perspiration, increased freezing, gastrointestinal bleeding, hair loss, increased tremor, nervousness, weakness, and weight loss. Experience with selegiline obtained in parallel, placebo controlled, randomized studies provides only a limited basis for estimates of adverse reaction rates. The following reactions that occurred with greater frequency among the 49 patients assigned to selegiline as compared to the 50 patients assigned to placebo in the only parallel, placebo controlled trial performed in patients with Parkinson's disease are shown in the following Table. None of these adverse reactions led to a discontinuation of treatment. INCIDENCE OF TREATMENT-EMERGENT ADVERSE EXPERIENCES IN THE PLACEBO-CONTROLLED CLINICAL TRIAL Adverse Event Number of Patients Reporting Events selegiline hydrochloride N=49 placebo N=50 Nausea 10 3 Dizziness/Light-headed/Fainting 7 1 Abdominal Pain 4 2 Confusion 3 0 Hallucinations 3 1 Dry mouth 3 1 Vivid Dreams 2 0 Dyskinesias 2 5 Headache 2 1 The following events were reported once in either or both groups: Ache, generalized 1 0 Anxiety/Tension 1 1 Anemia 0 1 Diarrhea 1 0 Hair Loss 0 1 Insomnia 1 1 Lethargy 1 0 Leg pain 1 0 Low back pain 1 0 Malaise 0 1 Palpitations 1 0 Urinary Retention 1 0 Weight Loss 1 0 In all prospectively monitored clinical investigations, enrolling approximately 920 patients, the following adverse events, classified by body system, were reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Introduction The number of patients who received selegiline in prospectively monitored pre-marketing studies is limited. While other sources of information about the use of selegiline are available (e.g., literature reports, foreign post-marketing reports, etc.) they do not provide the kind of information necessary to estimate the incidence of adverse events. Thus, overall incidence figures for adverse reactions associated with the use of selegiline cannot be provided. Many of the adverse reactions seen have also been reported as symptoms of dopamine excess. Moreover, the importance and severity of various reactions reported often cannot be ascertained. One index of relative importance, however, is whether or not a reaction caused treatment discontinuation. In prospective pre-marketing studies, the following events led, in decreasing order of frequency, to discontinuation of treatment with selegiline: nausea, hallucinations, confusion, depression, loss of balance, insomnia, orthostatic hypotension, increased akinetic involuntary movements, agitation, arrhythmia, bradykinesia, chorea, delusions, hypertension, new or increased angina pectoris and syncope. Events reported only once as a cause of discontinuation are ankle edema, anxiety, burning lips/mouth, constipation, drowsiness/lethargy, dystonia, excess perspiration, increased freezing, gastrointestinal bleeding, hair loss, increased tremor, nervousness, weakness and weight loss. Experience with selegiline obtained in parallel, placebo controlled, randomized studies provides only a limited basis for estimates of adverse reaction rates. The following reactions that occurred with greater frequency among the 49 patients assigned to selegiline as compared to the 50 patients assigned to placebo in the only parallel, placebo controlled trial performed in patients with Parkinson's disease are shown in the following Table. None of these adverse reactions led to a discontinuation of treatment. INCIDENCE OF TREATMENT-EMERGENT ADVERSE EXPERIENCES IN THE PLACEBO-CONTROLLED CLINICAL TRIAL Adverse Event Number of Patients Reporting Events selegiline hydrochloride N = 49 placebo N = 50 Nausea 10 3 Dizziness/Light-headed/Fainting 7 1 Abdominal Pain 4 2 Confusion 3 0 Hallucinations 3 1 Dry mouth 3 1 Vivid Dreams 2 0 Dyskinesias 2 5 Headache 2 1 The following events were reported once in either or both groups: Ache, generalized 1 0 Anxiety/Tension 1 1 Anemia 0 1 Diarrhea 1 0 Hair Loss 0 1 Insomnia 1 1 Lethargy 1 0 Leg pain 1 0 Low back pain 1 0 Malaise 0 1 Palpitations 1 0 Urinary Retention 1 0 Weight Loss 1 0 In all prospectively monitored clinical investigations, enrolling approximately 920 patients, the following adverse events, classified by body system, were reported. Central Nervous System Motor/Coordination/Extrapyramidal increased tremor, chorea, loss of balance, restlessness, blepharospasm, increased bradykinesia, facial grimace, falling down, heavy leg, muscle twitch*, myoclonic jerks*, stiff neck, tardive dyskinesia, dystonic symptoms, dyskinesia, involuntary movements, freezing, festination, increased apraxia, muscle cramps. Mental Status/Behavioral/Psychiatric hallucinations, dizziness, confusion, anxiety, depression, drowsiness, behavior/mood change, dreams/nightmares, tiredness, delusions, disorientation, lightheadedness, impaired memory*, increased energy*, transient high*, hollow feeling, lethargy/malaise, apathy, overstimulation, vertigo, personality change, sleep disturbance, restlessness, weakness, transient irritability. Pain/Altered Sensation headache, back pain, leg pain, tinnitus, migraine, supraorbital pain, throat burning, generalized ache, chills, numbness of toes/fingers, taste disturbance. Autonomic Nervous System dry mouth, blurred vision, sexual dysfunction. Cardiovascular orthostatic hypotension, hypertension, arrhythmia, palpitations, new or increased angina pectoris, hypotension, tachycardia, peripheral edema, sinus bradycardia, syncope. Gastrointestinal nausea/vomiting, constipation, weight loss, anorexia, poor appetite, dysphagia, diarrhea, heartburn, rectal bleeding, bruxism*, gastrointestinal bleeding (exacerbation of preexisting ulcer disease). Genitourinary/Gynecologic/Endocrine slow urination, transient anorgasmia*, nocturia, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, decreased penile sensation*, urinary frequency. *Indicates events reported only at doses greater than 10 mg/day. Skin and Appendages increased sweating, diaphoresis, facial hair, hair loss, hematoma, rash, photosensitivity. Miscellaneous asthma, diplopia, shortness of breath, speech affected. Postmarketing Reports The following experiences were described in spontaneous post-marketing reports. These reports do not provide sufficient information to establish a clear causal relationship with the use of selegiline hydrochloride. CNS Seizure in dialyzed chronic renal failure patient on concomitant medications."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Introduction: The number of patients who received selegiline in prospectively monitored pre-marketing studies is limited. While other sources of information about the use of selegiline are available (e.g., literature reports, foreign post-marketing reports, etc.) they do not provide the kind of information necessary to estimate the incidence of adverse events. Thus, overall incidence figures for adverse reactions associated with the use of selegiline cannot be provided. Many of the adverse reactions seen have also been reported as symptoms of dopamine excess. Moreover, the importance and severity of various reactions reported often cannot be ascertained. One index of relative importance, however, is whether or not a reaction caused treatment discontinuation. In prospective pre-marketing studies, the following events led, in decreasing order of frequency, to discontinuation of treatment with selegiline: nausea, hallucin-ations, confusion, depression, loss of balance, insomnia, orthostatic hypotension, increased akinetic involuntary movements, agitation, arrhythmia, bradykinesia, chorea, delusions, hypertension, new or increased angina pectoris, and syncope. Events reported only once as a cause of discontinuation are ankle edema, anxiety, burning lips/mouth, constipation, drowsiness/ lethargy, dystonia, excess perspiration, increased freezing, gastrointestinal bleeding, hair loss, increased tremor, nervousness, weakness, and weight loss. Experience with selegiline obtained in parallel, placebo-controlled, randomized studies provides only a limited basis for estimates of adverse reaction rates. The following reactions that occurred with greater frequency among the 49 patients assigned to selegiline as compared to the 50 patients assigned to placebo in the only parallel, placebo-controlled trial performed in patients with Parkinson's Disease are shown in the following Table. None of these adverse reactions led to a discontinuation of treatment. INCIDENCE OF TREATMENT-EMERGENT ADVERSE EXPERIENCES IN THE PLACEBO-CONTROLLED CLINICAL TRIAL Adverse Event Number of Patients Reporting Events selegiline hydrochloride N=49 placebo N=50 Nausea 10 3 Dizziness/Light- headedness/Fainting 7 1 Abdominal Pain 4 2 Confusion 3 0 Hallucinations 3 1 Dry mouth 3 1 Vivid Dreams 2 0 Dyskinesias 2 5 Headache 2 1 The following events were reported once in either or both groups: Ache, generalized 1 0 Anxiety/Tension 1 1 Anemia 0 1 Diarrhea 1 0 Hair Loss 0 1 Insomnia 1 1 Lethargy 1 0 Leg pain 1 0 Low back pain 1 0 Malaise 0 1 Palpitations 1 0 Urinary Retention 1 0 Weight Loss 1 0 In all prospectively monitored clinical investigations, enrolling approximately 920 patients, the following adverse events, classified by body system, were reported. Central Nervous System: Motor/Coordination/Extrapyramidal : increased tremor, chorea, loss of balance, restlessness, blepharospasm, increased bradykinesia, facial grimace, falling down, heavy leg, muscle twitch*, myoclonic jerks*, stiff neck, tardive dyskinesia, dystonic symptoms, dyskinesia, involuntary movements, freezing, festination, increased apraxia, muscle cramps. Mental Status/Behavioral/Psychiatric : hallucinations, dizziness, confusion, anxiety, depression, drowsiness, behavior/mood change, dreams/nightmares, tiredness, delusions, disorientation, lightheadedness, impaired memory*, increased energy*, transient high*, hollow feeling, lethargy/malaise, apathy, overstimulation, vertigo, personality change, sleep disturbance, restlessness, weakness, transient irritability. Pain/Altered Sensation: headache, back pain, leg pain, tinnitus, migraine, supraorbital pain, throat burning, generalized ache, chills, numbness of toes/fingers, taste disturbance. Autonomic Nervous System: dry mouth, blurred vision, sexual dysfunction. Cardiovascular: orthostatic hypotension, hypertension, arrhythmia, palpitations, new or increased angina pectoris, hypotension, tachycardia, peripheral edema, sinus bradycardia, syncope. Gastrointestinal: nausea/vomiting, constipation, weight loss, anorexia, poor appetite, dysphagia, diarrhea, heartburn, rectal bleeding, bruxism*, gastrointestinal bleeding (exacerbation of preexisting ulcer disease). Genitourinary/Gynecologic/Endocrine: slow urination, transient anorgasmia*, nocturia, prostatic hypertrophy, urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, decreased penile sensation*, urinary frequency. Skin and Appendages: increased sweating, diaphoresis, facial hair, hair loss, hematoma, rash, photosensitivity. Miscellaneous: asthma, diplopia, shortness of breath, speech affected. Postmarketing Reports: The following experiences were described in spontaneous post-marketing reports. These reports do not provide sufficient information to establish a clear causal relationship with the use of selegiline hydrochloride. CNS: Seizure in dialyzed chronic renal failure patient on concomitant medications. *indicates events reported only at doses greater than 10 mg/day."$$
"Drug Interactions The occurrence of stupor, muscular rigidity, severe agitation and elevated temperature has been reported in some patients receiving the combination of selegiline and meperidine. Symptoms usually resolve over days when the combination is discontinued. This is typical of the interaction of meperidine and MAOIs. Other serious reactions (including severe agitation, hallucinations and death) have been reported in patients receiving this combination (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and selegiline and selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors and selegiline (see WARNINGS for details). One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended doses of selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine)."$$
"Drug Interactions The occurrence of stupor, muscular rigidity, severe agitation, and elevated temperature has been reported in some patients receiving the combination of selegiline and meperidine. Symptoms usually resolve over days when the combination is discontinued. This is typical of the interaction of meperidine and MAOIs. Other serious reactions (including severe agitation, hallucinations, and death) have been reported in patients receiving this combination (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and selegiline and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and selegiline (See WARNINGS for details). One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended doses of selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine)."$$
"Drug Interactions The occurrence of stupor, muscular rigidity, severe agitation, and elevated temperature has been reported in some patients receiving the combination of selegiline and meperidine. Symptoms usually resolve over days when the combination is discontinued. This is typical of the interaction of meperidine and MAOIs. Other serious reactions (including severe agitation, hallucinations, and death) have been reported in patients receiving this combination (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and selegiline and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and selegiline. (See WARNINGS for details.) One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended doses of selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine)."$$
"Drug Interactions: The occurrence of stupor, muscular rigidity, severe agitation, and elevated temperature has been reported in some patients receiving the combination of selegiline and meperidine. Symptoms usually resolve over days when the combination is discontinued. This is typical of the interaction of meperidine and MAOIs. Other serious reactions (including severe agitation, hallucinations, and death) have been reported in patients receiving this combination (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and selegiline and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and selegiline. (See WARNINGS for details.) One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended doses of selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine)."$$
"Drug Interactions: The occurrence of stupor, muscular rigidity, severe agitation, and elevated temperature has been reported in some patients receiving the combination of selegiline and meperidine. Symptoms usually resolve over days when the combination is discontinued. This is typical of the interaction of meperidine and MAOIs. Other serious reactions (including severe agitation, hallucinations, and death) have been reported in patients receiving this combination (see ). Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and selegiline and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and selegiline. (See for details.) One case of hypertensive crisis has been reported in a patient taking the recommended doses of selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication (ephedrine). CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS"$$
