"ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Beta Vulgaris 3X, Boldo 3X, Chelidonium Majus 3X, Petroselinum Sativum 3X, Taraxacum Officinale 3X, Arsenicum Album 12X, Belladonna 12X, Cobaltum Metallicum 12X, Cuprum Metallicum 12X, Iodium 12X, Lycopodium Clavatum 12X, Phosphoricum Acidum 12X, Selenium Metallicum 12X, Zincum Metallicum 12X, Aspartame 30X, Benzalkonium Chloride 30X, Formalinum 30X, Methylene Chloride 30X, Methylene Chloride 30X, Methyl Paraben 30X, Propyl Paraben 30X, Sodium Benzoate 30X, Sodium Citrate 30X, Titanium Dioxide 30X, Zincum Oxydatum 30X."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) FORTE. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) ONE."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"Adverse Reactions Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report a serious adverse event or to obtain product information, contact (866) 703-3508."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitizations have been reported following oral administration of folic acid. Consult your physician immediately if adverse side effects occur."$$
"Adverse Reactions DIST. BY MEIJER DISTRIUBTION, INC. 2929 WALKER AVE NW GRAND RAPIDS, MI 49544 www.meijer.com"$$
"Adverse reactions Dist. by Target Corp., Mpls., MN55403 Made in U.S.A. Shop Target.com"$$
"Adverse Reactions Distributed by: CVS Pharmacy, Inc. One CVS Drive, Woonsocket, RI 02895 2013CVS/pharmacy www.cvs.com 1-800-shop-CVS Made in the U.S.A. of U.S. and imported parts"$$
"Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY SUPERVALU INC. EDEN PRAIRIE, MN 55344 USA Contact us at 1-877-932-7948, or www.supervalu-ourownbrands.com"$$
"Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY THE KROGER Co., CINCINNATI, OHIO 45202 Quality Guarantee"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In decreasing order of severity: skin irritation, occasional reports of increase in amount of normal hair loss, discoloration of hair (can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment). As with other shampoos, oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In decreasing order of severity: skin irritation; occasional reports of increase in normal hair loss; discoloration of hair (can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment). As with other shampoos, oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: In decreasing order of severity: skin irritation; occasional reports of increase in normal hair loss; discoloration of hair (can be avoided or minimized by thorough rinsing of hair after treatment). As with other shampoos, oiliness or dryness of hair and scalp may occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Experience - No adverse events with a causal relationship to WellMindTM Vertigo tablets have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The amount of selenium present in Selenium Injection is small. Symptoms of toxicity from selenium are unlikely to occur at the recommended dosage level."$$
"DISTRIBUTED BY THE KROGER CO. CINCINNATI, OHIO 45202 www.korger.com"$$
"Drug Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficacy of levodopa in the treatment of Parkinsonism. Therefore, STROVITE(R) FORTE is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"PACKAGED FOR DOLGENCORP, LLC 100 MISSION RIDGE, GOODLETTSVILLE, TN 37072 USA visit us at Rexall.com or call 1-866-4-REXALL"$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: For External Use Only. Do not use on broken skin or inflamed areas. If allergic reactions occur, discontinue use. Avoid getting shampoo in eyes or in contact with genital area as it may cause irritation and burning. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"Warnings and Precautions WARNINGS: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately. PRECAUTIONS: Folic Acid alone in doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using this product since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia. Ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) has been shown to have potential anti-thrombotic effects, including increased bleedng times. Administration of Folet DHA Omega-3 Fatty Acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants."$$
"WARNINGS For external use only. Not for ophthalmic use. DO NOT USE ON BROKEN SKIN OR INFLAMED AREAS. If allergic reaction occurs, discontinue use. Avoid contact with eyes, genital areas and skin folds, as irritation and burning may result. If accidental contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water."$$
"WARNINGS None"$$
"Warnings Stop use and ask your doctor if symptoms persist or worsen. If pregnant or breast-feeding, take only on advice of a healthcare professional. Keep out of reach of children. Tamper resistant for your protection. Use only if safety seal is intact."$$
