"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Co-administered with Sofosbuvir and Amiodarone: Serious symptomatic bradycardia may occur in patients taking amiodarone with sofosbuvir in combination with OLYSIO, particularly in patients also receiving beta blockers, or those with underlying cardiac comorbidities and/or advanced liver disease. Co-administration of amiodarone with OLYSIO in combination with sofosbuvir is not recommended. In patients without alternative treatment options, cardiac monitoring is recommended. (5.1, 6.2, 7.3) Hepatic Decompensation and Hepatic Failure: Hepatic decompensation and hepatic failure, including fatal cases have been reported in patients with advanced and/or decompensated cirrhosis. Monitor liver chemistry tests before and during OLYSIO combination therapy. (5.2) Photosensitivity: Serious photosensitivity reactions have been observed during OLYSIO combination therapy. Use sun protection measures and limit sun exposure during OLYSIO combination therapy. Consider discontinuation if a photosensitivity reaction occurs. (5.4) Rash: Rash has been observed during OLYSIO combination therapy. Discontinue OLYSIO if severe rash occurs. (5.5) 5.1 Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Co-administered with Sofosbuvir and Amiodarone Postmarketing cases of symptomatic bradycardia and cases requiring pacemaker intervention have been reported when amiodarone is co-administered with sofosbuvir in combination with another HCV direct-acting antiviral, including OLYSIO. A fatal cardiac arrest was reported in a patient receiving a sofosbuvir-containing regimen (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir). Bradycardia has generally occurred within hours to days, but cases have been observed up to 2 weeks after initiating HCV treatment. Patients also taking beta blockers, or those with underlying cardiac comorbidities and/or advanced liver disease may be at increased risk for symptomatic bradycardia with co-administration of amiodarone. Bradycardia generally resolved after discontinuation of HCV treatment. The mechanism for this bradycardia effect is unknown. Co-administration of amiodarone with OLYSIO in combination with sofosbuvir is not recommended. For patients taking amiodarone who have no other alternative treatment options, and who will be co-administered OLYSIO and sofosbuvir: Counsel patients about the risk of serious symptomatic bradycardia Cardiac monitoring in an in-patient setting for the first 48 hours of co-administration is recommended, after which outpatient or self-monitoring of the heart rate should occur on a daily basis through at least the first 2 weeks of treatment. Patients who are taking sofosbuvir in combination with OLYSIO who need to start amiodarone therapy due to no other alternative treatment options should undergo similar cardiac monitoring as outlined above. Due to amiodarone's long elimination half-life, patients discontinuing amiodarone just prior to starting sofosbuvir in combination with OLYSIO should also undergo similar cardiac monitoring as outlined above. Patients who develop signs or symptoms of bradycardia should seek medical evaluation immediately. Symptoms may include near-fainting or fainting, dizziness or lightheadedness, malaise, weakness, excessive tiredness, shortness of breath, chest pain, confusion or memory problems [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.2 Hepatic Decompensation and Hepatic Failure Hepatic decompensation and hepatic failure, including fatal cases, have been reported postmarketing in patients treated with OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV or in combination with sofosbuvir. Most cases were reported in patients with advanced and/or decompensated cirrhosis who are at increased risk for hepatic decompensation or hepatic failure. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made; and a causal relationship between treatment with OLYSIO and these events has not been established [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. OLYSIO is not recommended for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B or C) [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8)]. In clinical trials of OLYSIO, modest increases in bilirubin levels were observed without impacting hepatic function [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Postmarketing cases of hepatic decompensation with markedly elevated bilirubin levels have been reported. Monitor liver chemistry tests before and as clinically indicated during OLYSIO combination therapy. Patients who experience an increase in total bilirubin to greater than 2.5 times the upper limit of normal should be closely monitored: Patients should be instructed to contact their healthcare provider if they have onset of fatigue, weakness, lack of appetite, nausea and vomiting, jaundice or discolored feces. Discontinue OLYSIO if elevation in bilirubin is accompanied by liver transaminase increases or clinical signs and symptoms of hepatic decompensation. 5.3 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions Associated with Combination Treatment Because OLYSIO is used in combination with other antiviral drugs for the treatment of chronic HCV infection, consult the prescribing information for these drugs before starting therapy with OLYSIO. Warnings and Precautions related to these drugs also apply to their use in OLYSIO combination treatment. 5.4 Photosensitivity Photosensitivity reactions have been observed with OLYSIO combination therapy. Serious photosensitivity reactions resulting in hospitalization have been observed with OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Photosensitivity reactions occurred most frequently in the first 4 weeks of treatment, but can occur at any time during treatment. Photosensitivity may present as an exaggerated sunburn reaction, usually affecting areas exposed to light (typically the face, \\\\"V\\\\" area of the neck, extensor surfaces of the forearms, and dorsa of the hands). Manifestations may include burning, erythema, exudation, blistering, and edema. Use sun protective measures and limit sun exposure during treatment with OLYSIO. Avoid use of tanning devices during treatment with OLYSIO. Discontinuation of OLYSIO should be considered if a photosensitivity reaction occurs and patients should be monitored until the reaction has resolved. If a decision is made to continue OLYSIO in the setting of a photosensitivity reaction, expert consultation is advised. 5.5 Rash Rash has been observed with OLYSIO combination therapy [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Rash occurred most frequently in the first 4 weeks of treatment, but can occur at any time during treatment. Severe rash and rash requiring discontinuation of OLYSIO have been reported in subjects receiving OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Most of the rash events in OLYSIO-treated patients were of mild or moderate severity [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Patients with mild to moderate rashes should be followed for possible progression of rash, including the development of mucosal signs (e.g., oral lesions, conjunctivitis) or systemic symptoms. If the rash becomes severe, OLYSIO should be discontinued. Patients should be monitored until the rash has resolved. 5.6 Sulfa Allergy OLYSIO contains a sulfonamide moiety. In subjects with a history of sulfa allergy (n=16), no increased incidence of rash or photosensitivity reactions has been observed. However, there are insufficient data to exclude an association between sulfa allergy and the frequency or severity of adverse reactions observed with the use of OLYSIO. 5.7 Risk of Adverse Reactions or Reduced Therapeutic Effect Due to Drug Interactions Co-administration of OLYSIO with substances that are moderate or strong inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) is not recommended as this may lead to significantly lower or higher exposure of simeprevir, respectively, which may result in reduced therapeutic effect or adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because OLYSIO is administered in combination with other antiviral drugs, refer to the prescribing information of the antiviral drugs used in combination with OLYSIO for a description of adverse reactions associated with their use. The following serious and otherwise important adverse reactions are described below and in other sections of the labeling: Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Co-administered with Sofosbuvir and Amiodarone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.3)] Hepatic Decompensation and Hepatic Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Photosensitivity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Most common reported adverse reactions (incidence greater than 20%) (6.1): OLYSIO with sofosbuvir during 12 or 24 weeks of treatment: fatigue, headache and nausea. OLYSIO with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin (occurring with at least 3% higher frequency compared to placebo) during first 12 weeks of treatment: rash (including photosensitivity), pruritus and nausea. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Products, LP at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Adverse Reactions when Used with Sofosbuvir In the COSMOS trial, the most common (greater than 10%) adverse reactions reported during 12 weeks treatment with OLYSIO in combination with sofosbuvir (without RBV) were fatigue (25%), headache (21%), nausea (21%), insomnia (14%) and pruritus (11%). Rash and photosensitivity were reported in 11% and 7% of subjects, respectively. During 24 weeks treatment with OLYSIO in combination with sofosbuvir, dizziness (16%), and diarrhea (16%) were also commonly reported. Adverse Reactions when Used in Combination with Peg-IFN-Alfa and RBV The safety profile of OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV in patients with HCV genotype 1 infection who were treatment-naive or who had previously relapsed following interferon therapy with or without RBV is based on pooled data from three Phase 3 trials (QUEST-1, QUEST-2 and PROMISE) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. These trials included a total of 1178 subjects who received OLYSIO or placebo in combination with 24 or 48 weeks of Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Of the 1178 subjects, 781 subjects were randomized to receive OLYSIO 150 mg once daily for 12 weeks and 397 subjects were randomized to receive placebo once daily for 12 weeks. In the pooled Phase 3 safety data, the majority of the adverse reactions reported during 12 weeks treatment with OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV were Grade 1 to 2 in severity. Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions were reported in 23% of subjects receiving OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV versus 25% of subjects receiving placebo in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Serious adverse reactions were reported in 2% of subjects receiving OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV and in 3% of subjects receiving placebo in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Discontinuation of OLYSIO or placebo due to adverse reactions occurred in 2% and 1% of subjects receiving OLYSIO with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV and subjects receiving placebo with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV, respectively. The following table lists adverse reactions (all Grades) that occurred with at least 3% higher frequency among subjects with HCV genotype 1 infection receiving OLYSIO 150 mg once daily in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV, compared to subjects receiving placebo in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV, during the first 12 weeks of treatment in the pooled Phase 3 trials in subjects who were treatment-naive or who had previously relapsed after Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV therapy (see Table 4). Table 4: Adverse Reactions (all Grades) that Occurred with at Least 3% Higher Frequency Among Subjects with HCV Genotype 1 Infection Receiving OLYSIO 150 mg Once Daily in Combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV Compared to Subjects Receiving Placebo in Combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV During the First 12 Weeks of Treatment in Subjects with Chronic HCV InfectionSubjects were treatment-naive or had previously relapsed after Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV therapy. (Pooled Phase 3 TrialsPooled Phase 3 trials: QUEST 1, QUEST 2, PROMISE.) Adverse ReactionAdverse reactions that occurred at >= 3% higher frequency in the OLYSIO treatment group than in the placebo treatment group. OLYSIO 150 mg + Peg-IFN-alfa+ RBV First 12 Weeks N=781 % (n) Placebo + Peg-IFN-alfa+ RBV First 12 Weeks N=397 % (n) Rash (including photosensitivity) 28 (218) 20 (79) Pruritus 22 (168) 15 (58) Nausea 22 (173) 18 (70) Myalgia 16 (126) 13 (53) Dyspnea 12 (92) 8 (30) Rash and Photosensitivity In the Phase 3 clinical trials, rash (including photosensitivity reactions) was observed in 28% of OLYSIO-treated subjects compared to 20% of placebo-treated subjects during the 12 weeks of treatment with OLYSIO or placebo in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Fifty-six percent (56%) of rash events in the OLYSIO group occurred in the first 4 weeks, with 42% of cases occurring in the first 2 weeks. Most of the rash events in OLYSIO-treated subjects were of mild or moderate severity (Grade 1 or Grade 2). Severe (Grade 3) rash occurred in 1% of OLYSIO-treated subjects and in none of the placebo-treated subjects. There were no reports of life-threatening (Grade 4) rash. Discontinuation of OLYSIO or placebo due to rash occurred in 1% of OLYSIO-treated subjects, compared to less than 1% of placebo-treated subjects. The frequencies of rash and photosensitivity reactions were higher in subjects with higher simeprevir exposures. All subjects enrolled in the Phase 3 trials were directed to use sun protection measures. In these trials, adverse reactions under the specific category of photosensitivity were reported in 5% of OLYSIO-treated subjects compared to 1% of placebo-treated subjects during the 12 weeks of treatment with OLYSIO or placebo in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Most photosensitivity reactions in OLYSIO-treated subjects were of mild or moderate severity (Grade 1 or 2). Two OLYSIO-treated subjects experienced photosensitivity reactions which resulted in hospitalization. No life-threatening photosensitivity reactions were reported. Dyspnea During the 12 weeks of treatment with OLYSIO, dyspnea was reported in 12% of OLYSIO-treated subjects compared to 8% of placebo-treated subjects (all grades; pooled Phase 3 trials). All dyspnea events reported in OLYSIO-treated subjects were of mild or moderate severity (Grade 1 or 2). There were no Grade 3 or 4 dyspnea events reported and no subjects discontinued treatment with OLYSIO due to dyspnea. Sixty-one percent (61%) of dyspnea events occurred in the first 4 weeks of treatment with OLYSIO. Laboratory abnormalities There were no differences between treatment groups for the following laboratory parameters: hemoglobin, neutrophils, platelets, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, amylase, or serum creatinine. Laboratory abnormalities that were observed at a higher incidence in OLYSIO-treated subjects than in placebo-treated subjects are listed in Table 5. Table 5: Laboratory Abnormalities (WHO Worst Toxicity Grades 1 to 4) Observed at a Higher Incidence in OLYSIO-Treated Subjects (Pooled Phase 3 TrialsPooled Phase 3 trials: QUEST 1, QUEST 2, PROMISE.; First 12 Weeks of Treatment) Laboratory Parameter WHO Toxicity Range OLYSIO 150 mg + Peg-IFN-alfa + RBV N=781 % Placebo + Peg-IFN-alfa + RBV N=397 % Chemistry Alkaline phosphataseNo Grade 3 or 4 changes in alkaline phosphatase were observed. Grade 1 > 1.25 to <= 2.50 \\303\\227 ULNULN = Upper Limit of Normal 3 1 Grade 2 > 2.50 to <= 5.00 \\303\\227 ULN < 1 0 Hyperbilirubinemia Grade 1 > 1.1 to <= 1.5 \\303\\227 ULN 27 15 Grade 2 > 1.5 to <= 2.5 \\303\\227 ULN 18 9 Grade 3 > 2.5 to <= 5.0 \\303\\227 ULN 4 2 Grade 4 > 5.0 \\303\\227 ULN < 1 0 Elevations in bilirubin were predominately mild to moderate (Grade 1 or 2) in severity, and included elevation of both direct and indirect bilirubin. Elevations in bilirubin occurred early after treatment initiation, peaking by study Week 2, and were rapidly reversible upon cessation of OLYSIO. Bilirubin elevations were generally not associated with elevations in liver transaminases. The frequency of elevated bilirubin was higher in subjects with higher simeprevir exposures. Adverse Reactions in HCV/HIV-1 Co-infection OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV was studied in 106 subjects with HCV genotype 1/HIV-1 co-infection (C212). The safety profile in HCV/HIV co-infected subjects was generally comparable to HCV mono-infected subjects. Adverse Reactions in HCV Genotype 4 Infection OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV was studied in 107 subjects with HCV genotype 4 infection (RESTORE). The safety profile of OLYSIO in subjects with HCV genotype 4 infection was comparable to subjects with HCV genotype 1 infection. Adverse Reactions in East Asian Subjects OLYSIO in combination with Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV was studied in a Phase 3 trial conducted in China and South Korea in treatment-naive subjects with chronic HCV genotype 1 infection (TIGER). The safety profile of OLYSIO in East Asian subjects was similar to that of the pooled Phase 3 population from global trials; however, a higher incidence of the laboratory abnormality hyperbilirubinemia was observed in patients receiving 150 mg OLYSIO plus Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV compared to patients receiving placebo plus Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Elevation of total bilirubin (all grades) was observed in 66% (99/151) of subjects treated with 150 mg OLYSIO plus Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV and in 26% (40/152) of subjects treated with placebo plus Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. Bilirubin elevations were mainly Grade 1 or Grade 2. Grade 3 elevations in bilirubin were observed in 9% (13/151) of subjects treated with 150 mg OLYSIO plus Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV and in 1% (2/152) of subjects treated with placebo plus Peg-IFN-alfa and RBV. There were no Grade 4 elevations in bilirubin. The bilirubin elevations were not associated with increases in liver transaminases and were reversible after the end of treatment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during post approval use of OLYSIO. Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship between drug exposure and these adverse reactions. Cardiac Disorders: Serious symptomatic bradycardia has been reported in patients taking amiodarone who initiate treatment with sofosbuvir in combination with another HCV direct-acting antiviral, including OLYSIO [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Hepatobiliary Disorders: hepatic decompensation, hepatic failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of amiodarone with sofosbuvir in combination with OLYSIO may result in serious symptomatic bradycardia. (5.1) Co-administration of OLYSIO with drugs that are moderate or strong inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A may significantly affect the plasma concentrations of simeprevir. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during treatment. (5.7, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for OLYSIO to Affect Other Drugs Simeprevir mildly inhibits CYP1A2 activity and intestinal CYP3A4 activity, but does not affect hepatic CYP3A4 activity. Co-administration of OLYSIO with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs (see Table 6). Simeprevir inhibits OATP1B1/3 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporters. Co-administration of OLYSIO with drugs that are substrates for OATP1B1/3 and P-gp transport may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs (see Table 6). 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect OLYSIO The primary enzyme involved in the biotransformation of simeprevir is CYP3A [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Clinically relevant effects of other drugs on simeprevir pharmacokinetics via CYP3A may occur. Co-administration of OLYSIO with moderate or strong inhibitors of CYP3A may significantly increase the plasma exposure of simeprevir. Co-administration with moderate or strong inducers of CYP3A may significantly reduce the plasma exposure of simeprevir and lead to loss of efficacy (see Table 6). Therefore, co-administration of OLYSIO with substances that are moderate or strong inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 6 shows the established and other potentially significant drug interactions based on which alterations in dose or regimen of OLYSIO and/or co-administered drug may be recommended. Drugs that are not recommended for co-administration with OLYSIO are also included in Table 6. For information regarding the magnitude of interaction, see Tables 7 and 8 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 6: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alterations in Dose or Regimen May be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Simeprevir or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment The direction of the arrow (| = increase, | = decrease, \\342\\206\\224 = no change) indicates the direction of the change in PK. Antiarrhythmics Amiodarone Effect on amiodarone, simeprevir, and sofosbuvir concentrations unknown Co-administration of amiodarone with OLYSIO in combination with sofosbuvir is not recommended because it may result in serious symptomatic bradycardia. If co-administration is required, cardiac monitoring is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. | amiodarone Caution is warranted and therapeutic drug monitoring of amiodarone, if available, is recommended for concomitant use of amiodarone with an OLYSIO-containing regimen that does not contain sofosbuvir. DigoxinThese interactions have been studied in healthy adults with the recommended dose of 150 mg simeprevir once daily unless otherwise noted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), Tables 7 and 8]. | digoxin Routine therapeutic drug monitoring of digoxin concentrations is recommended. Oral administration Disopyramide, Flecainide, Mexiletine, Propafenone, Quinidine | antiarrhythmics Therapeutic drug monitoring for these antiarrhythmics, if available, is recommended when co-administered with OLYSIO. Anticonvulsants Carbamazepine, Oxcarbazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Anti-infectives Antibiotics (systemic administration): Erythromycin | simeprevir | erythromycin Co-administration is not recommended. Antibiotics (systemic administration): Clarithromycin, Telithromycin | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Antifungals (systemic administration): Itraconazole, Ketoconazole, Posaconazole | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Antifungals (systemic administration): Fluconazole, Voriconazole | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Antimycobacterials: Rifampin The dose of OLYSIO in this interaction study was 200 mg once daily both when given alone and when co-administered with rifampin 600 mg once daily., Rifabutin, Rifapentine | simeprevir \\342\\206\\224 rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine Co-administration is not recommended. Calcium Channel Blockers (oral administration) Amlodipine, Diltiazem, Felodipine, Nicardipine, Nifedipine, Nisoldipine, Verapamil | calcium channel blockers Clinical monitoring of patients is recommended when OLYSIO is co-administered with calcium channel blockers. Corticosteroids Systemic Dexamethasone | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Gastrointestinal Products Propulsive: Cisapride | cisapride Co-administration is not recommended. Herbal Products Milk thistle (Silybum marianum) | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) | simeprevir Co-administration of OLYSIO with products containing St. John's wort is not recommended. HIV Products Cobicistat-containing products | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs): Efavirenz | simeprevir \\342\\206\\224 efavirenz Co-administration is not recommended. Other NNRTIs Delavirdine Etravirine, Nevirapine | simeprevir | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Protease Inhibitors (PIs): Darunavir/ritonavir The dose of OLYSIO in this interaction study was 50 mg when co-administered in combination with darunavir/ritonavir, compared to 150 mg in the OLYSIO alone treatment group. | simeprevir | darunavir Co-administration is not recommended. Protease Inhibitors (PIs): Ritonavir The dose of OLYSIO in this interaction study was 200 mg once daily both when given alone and when co-administered in combination with ritonavir 100 mg given twice daily. | simeprevir Co-administration is not recommended. Other ritonavir-boosted or unboosted HIV PIs (Atazanavir, Fosamprenavir, Lopinavir, Indinavir, Nelfinavir, Saquinavir, Tipranavir) | or | simeprevir Co-administration of OLYSIO with any HIV PI, with or without ritonavir is not recommended. HMG CO-A Reductase Inhibitors Rosuvastatin | rosuvastatin Initiate rosuvastatin therapy with 5 mg once daily. The rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg daily when co-administered with OLYSIO. Atorvastatin | atorvastatin Use the lowest necessary dose of atorvastatin, but do not exceed a daily dose of 40 mg when co-administering with OLYSIO. Simvastatin | simvastatin Use the lowest necessary dose of simvastatin, titrate the simvastatin dose carefully, and monitor for safety when simvastatin is co-administered with OLYSIO. Pitavastatin, Pravastatin, Lovastatin | pitavastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin Use the lowest necessary dose of pitavastatin, pravastatin or lovastatin, titrate the dose carefully, and monitor for safety when co-administered with OLYSIO. Immunosuppressants Cyclosporine | cyclosporine | simeprevirStudied in combination with an investigational drug and RBV in a Phase 2 trial in HCV-infected post-liver transplant patients. Co-administration is not recommended. Sirolimus | or | sirolimus Routine monitoring of blood concentrations of sirolimus is recommended. Phosphodiesterase Type 5 (PDE-5) Inhibitors Sildenafil, Tadalafil, Vardenafil | PDE-5 inhibitors Dose adjustment of the PDE-5 inhibitor may be required when OLYSIO is co-administered with sildenafil or tadalafil administered chronically at doses used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Consider starting with the lowest dose of the PDE-5 inhibitor and increase as needed, with clinical monitoring as appropriate. No dose adjustment is required when OLYSIO is co-administered with doses of sildenafil, tadalafil or vardenafil indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Sedatives/Anxiolytics Midazolam (oral administration) | midazolam Caution is warranted when midazolam, which has a narrow therapeutic index, is co-administered with OLYSIO. Triazolam (oral administration) | triazolam Caution is warranted when triazolam, which has a narrow therapeutic index, is co-administered with OLYSIO. 7.4 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with OLYSIO In addition to the drugs included in Table 6, the interaction between OLYSIO and the following drugs were evaluated in clinical studies and no dose adjustments are needed for either drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: caffeine, dextromethorphan, escitalopram, ethinyl estradiol/norethindrone, methadone, midazolam (intravenous administration), omeprazole, raltegravir, rilpivirine, sofosbuvir, tacrolimus, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, and warfarin. No clinically relevant drug-drug interaction is expected when OLYSIO is co-administered with antacids, azithromycin, bedaquiline, corticosteroids (budesonide, fluticasone, methylprednisolone, and prednisone), dolutegravir, fluvastatin, H2-receptor antagonists, the narcotic analgesics buprenorphine and naloxone, NRTIs (such as abacavir, didanosine, emtricitabine, lamivudine, stavudine, zidovudine), maraviroc, methylphenidate, and proton pump inhibitors."$$
