
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Class Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Hypervolemia Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
