"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Anaphylactoid and hypersensitivity reactions (5.1, 6) Avoid use in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction. (5.2) Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of renal injury. (5.2) Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of renal replacement therapy has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products. (5.2) Monitor the coagulation status of patients undergoing open heart surgery in association with cardiopulmonary bypass as excess bleeding has been reported with HES solutions in this population. Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of coagulopathy. (5.3) Avoid fluid overload; adjust dosage in patients with cardiac or renal dysfunction (5.4) In severe dehydration, a crystalloid solution should be given first (5.4) Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products, including 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection. (5.5) Monitor kidney function, fluid balance and serum electrolytes (5.5) Elevated serum amylase values may occur and interfere with the diagnosis of pancreatitis (5.5) High dosages may cause dilution of blood components (5.5) 5.1 Anaphylactoid Reactions Anaphylactoid reactions (mild influenza-like symptoms, bradycardia, tachycardia, bronchospasm, non-cardiac pulmonary edema) have been reported with solutions containing hydroxyethyl starch. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, administration of the drug should be discontinued immediately and the appropriate treatment and supportive measures should be undertaken until symptoms have resolved. [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] 5.2 Renal Dysfunction Avoid use in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction. Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of renal injury. Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of RRT has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products. 5.3 Coagulopathy Monitor the coagulation status of patients undergoing open heart surgery in association with cardiopulmonary bypass as excess bleeding has been reported with HES solutions in this population. Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of coagulopathy. 5.4 Fluid Equilibrium Avoid fluid overload; adjust dosage in patients with cardiac or renal dysfunction. Fluid status and rate of infusion should be assessed regularly during treatment, especially in patients with cardiac insufficiency or severe kidney dysfunction. In cases of severe dehydration, a crystalloid solution should be given first. Generally, sufficient fluid should be administered in order to avoid dehydration. 5.5 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations, kidney function, acid-base balance, and coagulation parameters during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the patient's condition warrants such evaluation. Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products, including 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection. 5.6 Interference with Laboratory Tests Elevated serum amylase levels may be observed temporarily following administration of the product and can interfere with the diagnosis of pancreatitis. At high dosages the dilutional effects may result in decreased levels of coagulation factors and other plasma proteins and a decrease in hematocrit."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis (5.3) -Peritonitis: Initiate appropriate antimicrobial therapy. (5.3) -Hypersensitivity reactions: Serious reactions have been reported. Discontinue use of EXTRANEAL if serious reaction is suspected. (5.4) -Monitor for lactic acidosis in patients at risk (5.5) -Monitor for electrolyte, fluid, and nutrition imbalances (5.8) 5.1 Unrecognized Hypoglycemia Resulting From Drug-Device Interaction Only use glucose-specific monitors and test strips to measure blood glucose levels in patients using EXTRANEAL (icodextrin) Peritoneal Dialysis Solution. Blood glucose monitoring devices using glucose dehydrogenase pyrroloquinolinequinone (GDH-PQQ) or glucose-dye-oxidoreductase (GDO)-based methods must not be used. In addition, some blood glucose monitoring systems using glucose dehydrogenase flavin-adenine dinucleotide (GDH-FAD)-based methods must not be used. Use of GDH-PQQ, GDO, and GDH-FAD-based glucose monitors and test strips has resulted in falsely elevated glucose readings (due to the presence of maltose). Falsely elevated glucose readings have led patients or health care providers to withhold treatment of hypoglycemia or to administer insulin inappropriately. Both of these situations have resulted in unrecognized hypoglycemia, which has led to loss of consciousness, coma, permanent neurological damage, and death. Plasma levels of EXTRANEAL (icodextrin) and its metabolites return to baseline within approximately 14 days following cessation of EXTRANEAL (icodextrin) administration. Therefore falsely elevated glucose levels may be measured up to two weeks following cessation of EXTRANEAL (icodextrin) therapy when GDH-PQQ, GDO, and GDH-FAD-based blood glucose monitors and test strips are used. Because GDH-PQQ, GDO, and GDH-FAD-based blood glucose monitors may be used in hospital settings, it is important that the health care providers of all peritoneal dialysis patients using EXTRANEAL (icodextrin) carefully review the product information of the blood glucose testing system, including that of test strips, to determine if the system is appropriate for use with EXTRANEAL (icodextrin). To avoid improper insulin administration, educate all patients to alert health care providers of this interaction whenever they are admitted to the hospital. The manufacturer(s) of the monitor and test strips should be contacted to determine if icodextrin or maltose causes interference or falsely elevated glucose readings. For a list of toll free numbers for glucose monitor and test strip manufacturers, please contact the Baxter Renal Clinical Help Line 1-888-RENAL-HELP or visit www.glucosesafety.com. 5.2 REMS Program for EXTRANEAL Because of the risk of unrecognized hypoglycemia resulting from a drug-device interaction, EXTRANEAL is available only through a restricted program under a REMS [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Required components of the EXTRANEAL REMS Program include the following: -Dialysis clinic staff must be trained about the risk of undetected hypoglycemia resulting from a drug-device interactions involving EXTRANEAL in order to manage the treatment of patients prescribed EXTRANEAL. -Patients must be educated at a trained dialysis center before their initial EXTRANEAL treatment. Further information, including a listing of blood glucose monitor compatibility information provided by the manufacturers of blood glucose monitors, is available by visiting www.glucosesafety.com or by calling Baxter Renal Clinical Help Line 1-888-RENAL-HELP. 5.3 Peritonitis and Encapsulating Peritoneal Sclerosis Infections and aseptic peritonitis has been associated with EXTRANEAL use. Following EXTRANEAL use, inspect the drained fluid for the presence of fibrin or cloudiness, which may indicate the presence of peritonitis. If peritonitis occurs, the choice and dosage of antibiotics should be based upon the results of identification and sensitivity studies of the isolated organism(s) when possible. Prior to the identification of the involved organism(s), broad-spectrum antibiotics may be indicated. Encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis (EPS), sometimes fatal, is a complication of peritoneal dialysis therapy and has been reported in patients using EXTRANEAL. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious hypersensitivity reactions to EXTRANEAL have been reported such as toxic epidermal necrolysis, angioedema, serum sickness, erythema multiforme and vasculitis [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 and 6.2)]. Anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions may occur. Stop the infusion immediately and drain the solution from the peritoneal cavity if any signs or symptoms of a suspected hypersensitivity reaction develop. Institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures as clinically indicated. 5.5 Lactic Acidosis Monitor patients with conditions known to increase the risk of lactic acidosis [e.g., severe hypotension or sepsis that can be associated with acute renal failure, inborn errors of metabolism, treatment with drugs such as nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)] for lactic acidosis before the start of treatment and during treatment with EXTRANEAL. 5.6 Peritoneal Dialysis-Related Considerations Effective use of EXTRANEAL may be compromised in patients with abdominal conditions predisposing them to complications of peritoneal dialysis, including infection. 5.7 Overinfusion Overinfusion of peritoneal dialysis solution volume into the peritoneal cavity may be characterized by abdominal distention, feeling of fullness and/or shortness of breath. Drain the peritoneal dialysis solution from the peritoneal cavity to treat overinfusion. 5.8 Electrolyte, Fluid, and Nutrition Imbalances Peritoneal dialysis may affect a patient's protein, water-soluble vitamin, potassium, sodium, chloride, bicarbonate, and magnesium levels and volume status [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Monitor electrolytes and blood chemistry periodically and take appropriate clinical action. Potassium is omitted from EXTRANEAL solutions because dialysis may be performed to correct hyperkalemia. In situations where there is a normal serum potassium level or hypokalemia, the addition of potassium chloride (up to a concentration of 4 mEq/L) may be indicated to prevent severe hypokalemia. Monitor fluid status to avoid hyper- or hypovolemia and potentially severe consequences including congestive heart failure, volume depletion, and hypovolemic shock."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored. Abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PRISMASOL and PHOXILLUM solutions (5.1) Antidiabetic therapy may need adjustment during treatment with dextrose containing formulations (5.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1-800-651-2623 or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 5.1 Electrolyte and Volume Abnormalities Monitor hemodynamic status and fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance throughout the procedure. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration using PRISMASOL or PHOXILLUM replacement solutions, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by changing the formulations of replacement solution or by supplementation [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.2 Hyperglycemia with Dextrose Containing Solutions The use of PRISMASOL replacement solutions containing dextrose may increase the risk for hyperglycemia in patients with impaired glucose tolerance. Patients may require initiation of or modification of antidiabetic therapy during treatment with PRISMASOL solutions containing dextrose. Monitor blood glucose."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Methemoglobinemia: Sodium nitrite reacts with hemoglobin to form methemoglobin and should be used with caution in patients known to have anemia. Monitor oxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin levels by pulse oximetry or other measurements. Optimally, the sodium nitrite dose should be reduced in proportion to the oxygen carrying capacity. (5.2) Smoke inhalation: Carbon monoxide contained in smoke can result in the formation of carboxyhemoglobin that can reduce the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in patients with smoke inhalation injury because of the potential for worsening hypoxia due to methemoglobin formation. Carboxyhemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin levels should be monitored by pulse oximetry or other measurements in patients that present with evidence of smoke inhalation. Optimally, the sodium nitrite dose should be reduced in proportion to the oxygen carrying capacity. (5.4) 5.1 Hypotension See Boxed Warning. Sodium nitrite has been associated with severe hypotension, methemoglobinemia, and death at doses less than twice recommended therapeutic doses. Hypotension may occur concurrently or separately. Sodium nitrite should be used to treat life-threatening cyanide poisoning. When the diagnosis of cyanide poisoning is uncertain and/or the patient is not in extremis, special consideration should be given to administration of sodium nitrite if the patient is known or suspected to have diminished oxygen or cardiovascular reserve (e.g., smoke inhalation victims, pre-existing anemia, substantial blood loss, cardiac or respiratory compromise) or to be at higher risk of developing methemoglobinemia (e.g., congenital methemoglobin reductase deficiency). 5.2 Methemoglobinemia Supportive care alone may be sufficient treatment without administration of antidotes for many cases of cyanide intoxication, particularly in conscious patients without signs of severe toxicity. Patients should be closely monitored to ensure adequate perfusion and oxygenation during treatment with sodium nitrite. Methemoglobin levels should be monitored and oxygen administered during treatment with sodium nitrite whenever possible. When sodium nitrite is administered to humans a wide range of methemoglobin concentrations occur. Methemoglobin concentrations as high as 58% have been reported after two 300-mg doses of sodium nitrite administered to an adult. Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in the presence of other drugs that may cause methemoglobinemia such as procaine and nitroprusside. Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in patients who may be particularly susceptible to injury from vasodilation and its related hemodynamic sequelae. Hemodynamics should be monitored closely during and after administration of sodium nitrite, and infusion rates should be slowed if hypotension occurs. 5.3 Anemia Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in patients with known anemia. Patients with anemia will form more methemoglobin (as a percentage of total hemoglobin) than persons with normal red blood cell (RBC) volumes. Optimally, these patients should receive a sodium nitrite dose that is reduced in proportion to their oxygen carrying capacity. 5.4 Smoke Inhalation Injury Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in persons with smoke inhalation injury or carbon monoxide poisoning because of the potential for worsening hypoxia due to methemoglobin formation. 5.5 Neonates and Infants Neonates and infants may be more susceptible than adults and older pediatric patients to severe methemoglobinemia when sodium nitrite is administered. Reduced dosing guidelines should be followed in pediatric patients. 5.6 G6PD Deficiency Because patients with G6PD deficiency are at increased risk of a hemolytic crisis with sodium nitrite administration, alternative therapeutic approaches should be considered in these patients. Patients with known or suspected G6PD deficiency should be monitored for an acute drop in hematocrit. Exchange transfusion may be needed for patients with G6PD deficiency who receive sodium nitrite. 5.7 Use with Other Drugs Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in the presence of concomitant antihypertensive medications, diuretics or volume depletion due to diuretics, or drugs known to increase vascular nitric oxide, such as PDE5 inhibitors."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Methemoglobinemia: Sodium nitrite reacts with hemoglobin to form methemoglobin and should be used with caution in patients known to have anemia. Monitor oxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin levels by pulse oximetry or other measurements. Optimally, the sodium nitrite dose should be reduced in proportion to the oxygen carrying capacity. (5.2) Smoke inhalation: Carbon monoxide contained in smoke can result in the formation of carboxyhemoglobin that can reduce the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in patients with smoke inhalation injury because of the potential for worsening hypoxia due to methemoglobin formation. Carboxyhemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin levels should be monitored by pulse oximetry or other measurements in patients that present with evidence of smoke inhalation. Optimally, the sodium nitrite dose should be reduced in proportion to the oxygen carrying capacity. (5.4) 5.1 Hypotension See Boxed Warning. Sodium nitrite has been associated with severe hypotension, methemoglobinemia, and death at doses less than twice recommended therapeutic doses. Hypotension may occur concurrently or separately. Sodium nitrite should be used to treat life-threatening cyanide poisoning. When the diagnosis of cyanide poisoning is uncertain and/or the patient is not in extremis, special consideration should be given to administration of sodium nitrite if the patient is known or suspected to have diminished oxygen or cardiovascular reserve (e.g., smoke inhalation victims, pre-existing anemia, substantial blood loss, cardiac or respiratory compromise) or to be at higher risk of developing methemoglobinemia (e.g., congenital methemoglobin reductase deficiency). 5.2 Methemoglobinemia Supportive care alone may be sufficient treatment without administration of antidotes for many cases of cyanide intoxication, particularly in conscious patients without signs of severe toxicity. Patients should be closely monitored to ensure adequate perfusion and oxygenation during treatment with sodium nitrite. Methemoglobin levels should be monitored and oxygen administered during treatment with sodium nitrite whenever possible. When sodium nitrite is administered to humans a wide range of methemoglobin concentrations occur. Methemoglobin concentrations as high as 58% have been reported after two 300-mg doses of sodium nitrite administered to an adult. Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in the presence of other drugs that may cause methemoglobinemia such as procaine and nitroprusside. Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in patients who may be particularly susceptible to injury from vasodilation and its related hemodynamic sequelae. Hemodynamics should be monitored closely during and after administration of sodium nitrite and sodium thiosulfate, and infusion rates should be slowed if hypotension occurs. 5.3 Anemia Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in patients with known anemia. Patients with anemia will form more methemoglobin (as a percentage of total hemoglobin) than persons with normal red blood cell (RBC) volumes. Optimally, these patients should receive a sodium nitrite dose that is reduced in proportion to their oxygen carrying capacity. 5.4 Smoke Inhalation Injury Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in persons with smoke inhalation injury or carbon monoxide poisoning because of the potential for worsening hypoxia due to methemoglobin formation. 5.5 Neonates and Infants Neonates and infants may be more susceptible than adults and older pediatric patients to severe methemoglobinemia when sodium nitrite is administered. Reduced dosing guidelines should be followed in pediatric patients. 5.6 G6PD Deficiency Because patients with G6PD deficiency are at increased risk of a hemolytic crisis with sodium nitrite administration, alternative therapeutic approaches should be considered in these patients. Patients with known or suspected G6PD deficiency should be monitored for an acute drop in hematocrit. Exchange transfusion may be needed for patients with G6PD deficiency who receive sodium nitrite. 5.7 Use with Other Drugs Sodium nitrite should be used with caution in the presence of concomitant antihypertensive medications, diuretics or volume depletion due to diuretics, or drugs known to increase vascular nitric oxide, such as PDE5 inhibitors. 5.8 Sulfites Sodium thiosulfate drug product may contain trace impurities of sodium sulfite. The presence of a trace amount of sulfites in this product should not deter administration of the drug for treatment of emergency situations, even if the patient is sulfite-sensitive."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke can occur with NSAID treatment. Use the lowest effective dose of diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. ( 5.1) NSAIDs can cause gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation. Prescribe diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. ( 5.2) Elevation of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with NSAIDs. Discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen. ( 5.3) Hypertension can occur with NSAID treatment. Monitor blood pressure closely with diclofenac sodium topical solution treatment. ( 5.4) Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. ( 5.5) Long-term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients at greatest risk of this reaction, including the elderly, those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, and those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors. ( 5.6) Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution. ( 5.7) NSAIDs can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. ( 5.8) Not for use during pregnancy. ( 5.9) Do not administer to patients with aspirin sensitive asthma and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma. ( 5.10) Avoid exposure of treated knee(s) to natural or artificial sunlight. ( 5.11) Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucosa. ( 5.12) Avoid concurrent use with oral NSAIDs. ( 5.13) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several oral COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution and COX-2 selective and nonselective orally administered NSAIDs, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Inform patients about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. Two large, controlled, clinical trials of an orally administered COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4)]. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and NSAIDS, such as diclofenac, does increase the risk of serious GI events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] 5.2 Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of GI Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Prescribe NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, use special care when treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during diclofencac therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. For high-risk patients, consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs. 5.3 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations (less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ULN] range) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15% of oral diclofenac-treated patients in clinical trials of indications other than acute pain. Of the markers of hepatic function, ALT (SGPT) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury. In clinical trials of an oral diclofenac - misoprostol combination product, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In an open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated for 2 to 6 months, patients with oral diclofenac were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of the 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (>8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In this open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3 to 8 times the ULN), and marked (>8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal test occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with oral diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of NSAID therapy. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of sever hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of oral diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Measure transaminases (ALT and AST) periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, monitor transaminases within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g. eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution immediately. To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements, inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flulike\\\\" symptoms), and the appropriate action to take if these signs and symptoms appear. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing diclofenac sodium topical solution with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, certain antibiotics, antiepileptics). Caution patients to avoid taking unprescribed acetaminophen while using diclofenac sodium topical solution. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can lead to new onset or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Use NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, with caution in patients with hypertension. Monitor blood pressure (BP) closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Patients taking ACE-inhibitors, thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. 5.5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution. Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5.6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with considerable dehydration. Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with diclofenac sodium topical solution is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease. If diclofenac sodium topical solution therapy is initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. 5.7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution. Do not prescribe diclofenac sodium topical solution to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [ see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Seek emergency help in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. 5.8 Skin Reactions Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to open skin wounds, infections, inflammations, or exfoliative dermatitis, as it may affect absorption and tolerability of the drug. NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations, and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other signs of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Pregnancy Diclofenac sodium topical solution should not be used by pregnant or nursing women or those intending to become pregnant. 5.10 Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross-reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, do not administer diclofenac sodium topical solution to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma. 5.11 Sun Exposure Instruct patients to avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight on treated knee(s) because studies in animals indicated topical diclofenac treatment resulted in an earlier onset of ultraviolet light-induced skin tumors. The potential effects of diclofenac sodium topical solution on skin response to ultraviolet damage in humans are not known. 5.12 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucosa. Advise patients that if eye contact occurs, immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour. 5.13 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage, more frequent abnormal creatinine, urea and hemoglobin. Therefore, do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. 5.14 Corticosteroid Treatment Diclofenac sodium topical solution cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency. Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to exacerbation of corticosteroid-response illness. For patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy, taper slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids. 5.15 Inflammation The pharmacological activity of diclofenac sodium topical solution in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions. 5.16 Hematological Effects The effects of diclofenac sodium topical solution on platelet function were studied in 10 healthy subjects administered 80 drops four times a day for 7 days. There was no significant change in platelet aggregation following one week of treatment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. Check hemoglobin or hematocrit of patients on diclofenac sodium topical solution if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration and reversible. Carefully monitor patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution who may be adversely affected by alteration in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants. 5.17 Monitoring Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms in patients taking NSAIDs, monitor patients for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. Check CBC and a chemistry profile periodically in patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs. Discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious and potentially fatal cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke can occur with NSAID treatment. Use the lowest effective dose of diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. (5.1) NSAIDs can cause gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation. Prescribe diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. (5.2) Elevation of one or more liver tests may occur during therapy with NSAIDs. Discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution immediately if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen. (5.3) Hypertension can occur with NSAID treatment. Monitor blood pressure closely with diclofenac sodium topical solution treatment. (5.4) Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. (5.5) Long-term administration of NSAIDs can result in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients at greatest risk of this reaction, including the elderly, those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, and those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors. (5.6) Anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients with the aspirin triad or in patients without prior exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution. (5.7) NSAIDs can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. (5.8) Not for use during pregnancy. (5.9) Do not administer to patients with aspirin sensitive asthma and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma. (5.10) Avoid exposure of treated knee(s) to natural or artificial sunlight. (5.11) Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucosa. (5.12) Avoid concurrent use with oral NSAIDs. (5.13) 5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several oral COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution and COX-2 selective and nonselective orally administered NSAIDs, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Inform patients about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. Two large, controlled, clinical trials of an orally administered COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke [see Contraindications (4)]. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and NSAIDS, such as diclofenac, does increase the risk of serious GI events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] 5.2 Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of GI Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Prescribe NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, use special care when treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during diclofencac therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. For high-risk patients, consider alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs. 5.3 Hepatic Effects Borderline elevations (less than 3 times the upper limit of the normal [ULN] range) or greater elevations of transaminases occurred in about 15% of oral diclofenac-treated patients in clinical trials of indications other than acute pain. Of the markers of hepatic function, ALT (SGPT) is recommended for the monitoring of liver injury. In clinical trials of an oral diclofenac - misoprostol combination product, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In an open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated for 2 to 6 months, patients with oral diclofenac were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of the 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (>8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In this open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3 to 8 times the ULN), and marked (>8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal test occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with oral diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of NSAID therapy. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of sever hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of oral diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Measure transaminases (ALT and AST) periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, monitor transaminases within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g. eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution immediately. To minimize the possibility that hepatic injury will become severe between transaminase measurements, inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and \\\\"flulike\\\\" symptoms), and the appropriate action to take if these signs and symptoms appear. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing diclofenac sodium topical solution with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, certain antibiotics, antiepileptics). Caution patients to avoid taking unprescribed acetaminophen while using diclofenac sodium topical solution. 5.4 Hypertension NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can lead to new onset or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Use NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, with caution in patients with hypertension. Monitor blood pressure (BP) closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Patients taking ACE-inhibitors, thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. 5.5 Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution. Use diclofenac sodium topical solution with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. 5.6 Renal Effects Use caution when initiating treatment with diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with considerable dehydration. Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of diclofenac sodium topical solution in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with diclofenac sodium topical solution is not recommended in patients with advanced renal disease. If diclofenac sodium topical solution therapy is initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. 5.7 Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution. Do not prescribe diclofenac sodium topical solution to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Seek emergency help in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. 5.8 Skin Reactions Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to open skin wounds, infections, inflammations, or exfoliative dermatitis, as it may affect absorption and tolerability of the drug. NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium topical solution, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations, and discontinue use of the drug at the first appearance of skin rash or any other signs of hypersensitivity. 5.9 Pregnancy Diclofenac sodium topical solution should not be used by pregnant or nursing women or those intending to become pregnant. 5.10 Preexisting Asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross-reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, do not administer diclofenac sodium topical solution to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and use with caution in patients with preexisting asthma. 5.11 Sun Exposure Instruct patients to avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight on treated knee(s) because studies in animals indicated topical diclofenac treatment resulted in an earlier onset of ultraviolet light-induced skin tumors. The potential effects of diclofenac sodium topical solution on skin response to ultraviolet damage in humans are not known. 5.12 Eye Exposure Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucosa. Advise patients that if eye contact occurs, immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour. 5.13 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage, more frequent abnormal creatinine, urea and hemoglobin. Therefore, do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. 5.14 Corticosteroid Treatment Diclofenac sodium topical solution cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency. Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to exacerbation of corticosteroid-response illness. For patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy, taper slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids. 5.15 Inflammation The pharmacological activity of diclofenac sodium topical solution in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions. 5.16 Hematological Effects The effects of diclofenac sodium topical solution on platelet function were studied in 10 healthy subjects administered 80 drops four times a day for 7 days. There was no significant change in platelet aggregation following one week of treatment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving NSAIDs. This may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross GI blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. Check hemoglobin or hematocrit of patients on diclofenac sodium topical solution if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia or blood loss. NSAIDs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients. Unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration and reversible. Carefully monitor patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution who may be adversely affected by alteration in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants. 5.17 Monitoring Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms in patients taking NSAIDs, monitor patients for signs or symptoms of GI bleeding. Check CBC and a chemistry profile periodically in patients on long-term treatment with NSAIDs. Discontinue diclofenac sodium topical solution if abnormal liver tests or renal tests persist or worsen."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Sulfites: Sodium thiosulfate may contain trace impurities of sodium sulfite (5.1) 5.1 Sulfites Sodium thiosulfate drug product may contain trace impurities of sodium sulfite. The presence of a trace amount of sulfites in this product should not deter administration of the drug for treatment of emergency situations, even if the patient is sulfite-sensitive."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS The electrolyte solution contained in compartment A must be mixed with the buffer solution of compartment B before use in order to obtain the reconstituted solution suitable for hemofiltration /hemodiafiltration. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. PrismaSol solution includes several formulations. Selection of a specific formulation depends on the patient's condition and treatment procedures. Administration of the solution should only be under the direction of a physician competent in intensive care treatment including CRRT. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Note that citrate, when used as an anticoagulant, contributes to the base load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. During hemofiltration or hemodiafiltration, abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may develop. These abnormalities may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Abnormalities in plasma phosphate concentration, especially hypophosphatemia, may also occur. Hypophosphatemia may require phosphate supplementation to maintain plasma concentrations in the physiologic range. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. When connecting solution bags, follow the instructions in this leaflet for correct use of the access ports. Incorrect use of the access port or other restrictions to fluid flow might lead to incorrect patient weight loss and may result in machine alarms. Continuing treatment without resolving the originating cause may result in patient injury or death. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. After heating, verify that the solution remains clear and contains no particulate matter. The solution in compartment A must be mixed with the solution of compartment B before use. Due to chemical reasons, after removal of the overwrap, the solution is stable for 24 hours including the duration of the treatment. Do not administer the reconstituted solution unless it is clear and free of visible particulate matter. The patient's hemodynamic fluid, electrolyte and acid-base balance should be monitored throughout the procedure. Abnormalities in the plasma concentration of potassium, calcium, and glucose may be corrected by the use of appropriate formulations of PrismaSol solution. Use only with continuous extra-corporeal blood purification equipment in CRRT. The solution may be heated to no more than 40\\302\\260C/104\\302\\260F inside of the overwrap and this must be carefully controlled. Diabetes Mellitus or Glucose Intolerance Patients may require initiation of insulin therapy or modification of insulin dosage during treatment with PrismaSol solution. Appropriate monitoring of blood glucose should be performed and insulin dosage adjusted accordingly."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions can result from the solution or the CRRT procedure. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. Improper use can lead to fluid imbalance and disturbances in electrolyte, acid-base and glucose balance. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gambro at 1800-651-2623 / www.gambro.com or FDA 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were increased mortality and need for renal replacement therapy in critically ill patients including sepsis. Most common adverse reactions (incidence >1%) are pruritus, elevated serum amylase, hemodilution (resulting in dilution of blood components, e.g., coagulation factors and other plasma proteins, and in a decrease in hematocrit). Anaphylactoid/hypersensitivity reactions can occur. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact B. Braun Medical Inc. at 1-800-227-2862 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile Serious adverse reactions reported in clinical trials include increased mortality and increased use of RRT in critically ill subjects including subjects with sepsis. The most common adverse reactions after administration of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection occurring in more than 1% of patients are: pruritus (itching; >1% to <10%), elevation of serum amylase (>1% to <10%; interference with the diagnosis of pancreatitis), and dilutional effects that may result in decreased levels of coagulation factors and other plasma proteins and in a decrease of hematocrit (>1% to <10%). Anaphylactoid reactions occur rarely in <0.1% after administration of hydroxyethyl starch solutions. Disturbances of blood coagulation beyond dilution effects can occur rarely in <0.1% depending on the dosage with the administration of hydroxyethyl starch solutions1. 6.2 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug or another patient population and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical development, a total of 899 subjects received the hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 drug substance at different concentrations (2%, 4%, 6%, or 10%) and at cumulative doses of several mL up to 66 L2. Of these 899 subjects, 602 were exposed to 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4. The mean duration of treatment with hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 was 3.7 \\302\\261 3.1 days, mean cumulative doses were 3185 \\302\\261 3498 mL, and the longest follow-up period was 90 days. In a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of subjects (N=100) undergoing elective orthopedic surgery, 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection (N=49) or hetastarch (6% hydroxyethyl starch in 0.9% sodium chloride injection; N=51) were administered for intraoperative volume replacement.3 Mean infusion volumes were 1613 \\302\\261 778 mL for 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection and 1584 \\302\\261 958 mL for hetastarch. Adverse reactions observed in at least 1% of subjects: In the orthopedic surgery trial conducted in the US, no significant differences in serious adverse reactions were noted overall between the two treatment arms. A possible relationship to 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection was reported in five cases among three subjects (aPTT elevated, PT prolonged, wound hemorrhage, anemia, pruritus); a possible relationship to hetastarch was reported in five subjects (three cases of coagulopathy; two cases of pruritus). The three coagulopathy cases in the hetastarch group were serious and occurred in subjects receiving more than the labeled ceiling dose (20 mL/kg), which is known to increase the risk of bleeding, whereas no serious coagulopathy occurred in the 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection group. Since calculated red blood cell loss for the two treatment arms was not statistically different (95% confidence interval included unity), the difference observed for Factor VIII (see Table 1, below) must be interpreted with caution. An exploratory analysis of total erythrocyte volume transfused (8.0 mL/kg vs. 13.8 mL/kg, 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection vs. hetastarch, respectively) also must be viewed with caution. Table 1: Safety Variables for the Orthopedic Surgery Trial conducted in the US Mean Ratio 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection/Hetastarch Variable 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection N=49 Hetastarch N=51 Estimate 95% CI Calculated red blood cell loss [L]* 1.17 1.31 0.910 [0.720; 1.141] Factor VIII [%]* 100.5 81.4 1.244 [1.000; 1.563] von Willebrand factor [%]Exploratory analyses 97.7 88.7 1.128 [0.991; 1.285] Fresh frozen plasma [mL] 72 144 0.723 [0.000; 2.437] A safety profile of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at least as favorable as for pentastarch was also demonstrated in studies where 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection was administered at doses higher (up to 50 mL/kg or 3 g/kg) than for pentastarch (up to 33 mL/kg or 2 g/kg) in clinical settings where large or repetitive doses were administered. Trials in critically ill adult subjects Three RCTs followed critically ill adult subjects treated with different HES products for 90 days. One trial using 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection in severe sepsis subjects (N=196) reported no difference in mortality (relative risk, 1.20; 95% CI, 0.83 to 1.74; p=0.33) and a trend for increased use of RRT (relative risk, 1.83; 95% CI, 0.93 to 3.59; p=0.06) in HES subjects4. Another trial using 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection in a heterogeneous population of critically ill subjects admitted to the ICU (N=7000) reported no difference in mortality (relative risk, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.96 to 1.18; p=0.26) but increased use of RRT (relative risk, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.45; p=0.04) in HES subjects.5 A third trial in severe sepsis subjects (N=804) using an HES product not licensed in the U.S. (HES 130/0.42) reported increased mortality (relative risk, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.36; p=0.03) and increased use of RRT (relative risk, 1.35; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.80; p=0.04) in HES subjects.6 6.3 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Among the very rarely occurring serious adverse drug reactions in patients treated with 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid/hypersensitivity reactions or hypotension/shock/circulatory collapse were most frequently reported. The following adverse reactions have been identified and reported during the post-approval use of different HES products in critically ill adult patients, including patients with sepsis: Mortality Renal: use of RRT"$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution are application site reactions. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact IGI Laboratories, Inc. at 1-856-697-1441, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of another drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution of 911 patients treated between 4 and 12 weeks (mean duration of 49 days) in seven Phase 3 controlled trials, as well as exposure of 793 patients treated in an open-label study, including 463 patients treated for at least 6 months, and 144 patients treated for at least 12 months. The population mean age was approximately 60 years, 89% of patients were Caucasians, 64% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the studies. Application site reactions: In controlled trials, the most common treatment related adverse events in patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. Application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness, erythema, induration, vesicles, paresthesia, pruritus, vasodilation, acne, and urticaria. The most frequent of these reactions were dry skin (32%), contact dermatitis characterized by skin erythema and induration (9%), contact dermatitis with vescicles (2%) and pruritus (4%). In one controlled trial, a higher rate of contact dermatitis with vesicles (4%) was observed after treatment of 152 subjects with the combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac. In the open label uncontrolled long-term safety study, contact dermatitis occurred in 13% and contact dermatitis with vesicles in 10% of patients, generally within the first 6 months of exposure, leading to a withdrawal rate for an application site event of 14%. Adverse events common to the NSAID class: In controlled trials, subjects treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution experienced some adverse events associated with the NSAID class more frequently than subjects using placebo (constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, edema; see Table 1). The combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%), and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%), but no difference in elevation of liver transaminases. Table 1: lists all adverse reactions occurring in >=1% of patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution, where the rate in the diclofenac sodium topical solution group exceeded placebo, from seven controlled studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Since these trials were of different durations, these percentages do not capture cumulative rates of occurrence. Table 1: Adverse Reactions occurring in >=1% of patients treated with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution in placebo and oral diclofenac-controlled trials. Treatment Group: Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution N=911 Topical Placebo N=332 Adverse ReactionPreferred Term according to COSTART N(%) N(%) Dry Skin (Application Site) 292 (32) 17 (5) Contact Dermatitis (Application Site) 83 (9) 6 (2) Dyspepsia 72 (8) 13 (4) Abdominal Pain 54 (6) 10 (3) Flatulence 35 (4) 1 (<1) Pruritus (Application Site) 34 (4) 7 (2) Diarrhea 33 (4) 7 (2) Nausea 33 (4) 3 (1) Pharyngitis 40 (4) 13 (4) Constipation 29 (3) 1 (<1) Edema 26 (3) 0 Rash (Non-Application Site) 25 (3) 5 (2) Infection 25 (3) 8 (2) Ecchymosis 19 (2) 1 (<1) Dry Skin (Non-Application Site) 19 (2) 1 (<1) Contact Dermatitis, vesicles (Application Site) 18 (2) 0 Paresthesia (Non-Application Site) 14 (2) 3 (<1) Accidental Injury 22 (2) 7 (2) Pruritus (Non-Application Site) 15 (2) 2 (<1) Sinusitis 10 (1) 2 (<1) Halitosis 11 (1) 1 (<1) Application Site Reaction (not otherwise specified) 11 (1) 3 (<1) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In non - U.S. postmarketing surveillance, the following adverse reactions have been reported during post-approval use of diclofenac sodium topical solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, body odor, chest pain, edema, face edema, halitosis, headache, lack of drug effect, neck rigidity, pain Cardiovascular: palpitation, cardiovascular disorder Digestive: diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, decreased appetite, mouth ulceration, nausea, rectal hemorrhage, ulcerative stomatitis Metabolic and Nutritional: creatinine increased Musculoskeletal: leg cramps, myalgia Nervous: depression, dizziness, drowsiness, lethargy, paresthesia, paresthesia at application site Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, laryngismus, laryngitis, pharyngitis Skin and Appendages: At the Application Site: contact dermatitis, contact dermatitis with vesicles, dry skin, pruritus, rash; Other Skin and Appendages Adverse Reactions: eczema, rash, pruritus, skin discoloration, urticaria Special senses: abnormal vision, blurred vision, cataract, ear pain, eye disorder, eye pain, taste perversion"$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution are application site reactions. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-667-4708 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of another drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to diclofenac sodium topical solution of 911 patients treated between 4 and 12 weeks (mean duration of 49 days) in seven Phase 3 controlled trials, as well as exposure of 793 patients treated in an open-label study, including 463 patients treated for at least 6 months, and 144 patients treated for at least 12 months. The population mean age was approximately 60 years, 89% of patients were Caucasians, 64% were females, and all patients had primary osteoarthritis. The most common adverse events with diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. These events were the most common reason for withdrawing from the studies. Application site reactions: In controlled trials, the most common treatment related adverse events in patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution were application site skin reactions. Application site reactions were characterized by one or more of the following: dryness, erythema, induration, vesicles, paresthesia, pruritus, vasodilation, acne, and urticaria. The most frequent of these reactions were dry skin (32%), contact dermatitis characterized by skin erythema and induration (9%), contact dermatitis with vescicles (2%) and pruritus (4%). In one controlled trial, a higher rate of contact dermatitis with vesicles (4%) was observed after treatment of 152 subjects with the combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac. In the open label uncontrolled long-term safety study, contact dermatitis occurred in 13% and contact dermatitis with vesicles in 10% of patients, generally within the first 6 months of exposure, leading to a withdrawal rate for an application site event of 14%. Adverse events common to the NSAID class: In controlled trials, subjects treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution experienced some adverse events associated with the NSAID class more frequently than subjects using placebo (constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, edema; see Table 1). The combination of diclofenac sodium topical solution and oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%), and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%), but no difference in elevation of liver transaminases. Table 1: lists all adverse reactions occurring in >=1% of patients receiving diclofenac sodium topical solution, where the rate in the diclofenac sodium topical solution group exceeded placebo, from seven controlled studies conducted in patients with osteoarthritis. Since these trials were of different durations, these percentages do not capture cumulative rates of occurrence. Table 1: Adverse Reactions occurring in >=1% of patients treated with Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution in placebo and oral diclofenac-controlled trials. Treatment Group: Diclofenac Sodium Topical Solution N=911 Topical Placebo N=332 Adverse Reaction Preferred Term according to COSTART N(%) N(%) Dry Skin (Application Site) 292 (32) 17 (5) Contact Dermatitis (Application Site) 83 (9) 6 (2) Dyspepsia 72 (8) 13 (4) Abdominal Pain 54 (6) 10 (3) Flatulence 35 (4) 1 (<1) Pruritus (Application Site) 34 (4) 7 (2) Diarrhea 33 (4) 7 (2) Nausea 33 (4) 3 (1) Pharyngitis 40 (4) 13 (4) Constipation 29 (3) 1 (<1) Edema 26 (3) 0 Rash (Non-Application Site) 25 (3) 5 (2) Infection 25 (3) 8 (2) Ecchymosis 19 (2) 1 (<1) Dry Skin (Non-Application Site) 19 (2) 1 (<1) Contact Dermatitis, vesicles (Application Site) 18 (2) 0 Paresthesia (Non-Application Site) 14 (2) 3 (<1) Accidental Injury 22 (2) 7 (2) Pruritus (Non-Application Site) 15 (2) 2 (<1) Sinusitis 10 (1) 2 (<1) Halitosis 11 (1) 1 (<1) Application Site Reaction (not otherwise specified) 11 (1) 3 (<1) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In non - U.S. postmarketing surveillance, the following adverse reactions have been reported during post-approval use of diclofenac sodium topical solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain, accidental injury, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, body odor, chest pain, edema, face edema, halitosis, headache, lack of drug effect, neck rigidity, pain Cardiovascular: palpitation, cardiovascular disorder Digestive: diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, gastroenteritis, decreased appetite, mouth ulceration, nausea, rectal hemorrhage, ulcerative stomatitis Metabolic and Nutritional: creatinine increased Musculoskeletal: leg cramps, myalgia Nervous: depression, dizziness, drowsiness, lethargy, paresthesia, paresthesia at application site Respiratory: asthma, dyspnea, laryngismus, laryngitis, pharyngitis Skin and Appendages: At the Application Site: contact dermatitis, contact dermatitis with vesicles, dry skin, pruritus, rash; Other Skin and Appendages Adverse Reactions: eczema, rash, pruritus, skin discoloration, urticaria Special senses: abnormal vision, blurred vision, cataract, ear pain, eye disorder, eye pain, taste perversion"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction (incidence > 5%) was rash. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Baxter Healthcare Corporation at 1-866-888-2472 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience EXTRANEAL was originally studied in controlled clinical trials of 493 patients with end-stage renal disease who received a single daily exchange of EXTRANEAL for the long dwell (8-to 16- hours). There were 215 patients exposed for at least 6 months and 155 patients exposed for at least one year. The population was 18-83 years of age, 56% male and 44% female, 73% Caucasian, 18% Black, 4% Asian, 3% Hispanic, and it included patients with the following comorbid conditions: 27% diabetes, 49% hypertension and 23% hypertensive nephropathy. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does, however, provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates. Rash was the most frequently occurring EXTRANEAL-related adverse event (5.5%, EXTRANEAL; 1.7% Control). Seven patients on EXTRANEAL discontinued treatment due to rash, and one patient on EXTRANEAL discontinued due to exfoliative dermatitis. The rash typically appeared within the first three weeks of treatment and resolved with treatment discontinuation or, in some patients, with continued treatment. Table 1 shows the adverse events reported in these clinical studies regardless of causality, occurring in >= 5% of patients and more common on EXTRANEAL than control. Table 1 - Adverse Experiences in >=5% of Patients and More Common on EXTRANEAL EXTRANEAL Control N = 493 N = 347 Peritonitis 26% 25% Upper respiratory infection 15% 13% Hypertension 13% 8% Rash 10% 5% Headache 9% 7% Abdominal Pain 8% 6% Flu syndrome 7% 6% Nausea 7% 5% Cough increase 7% 4% Edema 6% 5% Accidental injury 6% 4% Chest pain 5% 4% Dyspepsia 5% 4% Hyperglycemia 5% 4% Adverse reactions reported with an incidence of > 5% and at least as common on dextrose control included pain, asthenia, exit site infection, infection, back pain, hypotension, diarrhea, vomiting, nausea/vomiting, anemia, peripheral edema, hypokalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypoproteinemia, hypervolemia, arthralgia, dizziness, dyspnea, skin disorder, pruritis. Additional adverse events occurring at an incidence of < 5% and that may or may not have been related to EXTRANEAL include: pain on infusion, abdominal enlargement, cloudy effluent, ultrafiltration decrease, postural hypotension, heart failure, hyponatremia, hypochloremia, hypercalcemia, hypoglycemia, alkaline phosphatase increase, SGPT increase, SGOT increase, cramping, confusion, lung edema, facial edema, exfoliative dermatitis, eczema, vesicobullous rash, maculopapular rash, erythema multiforme. All reported events are included in the list except those already listed in Table 1 or the following two paragraphs, those not plausibly associated with EXTRANEAL, and those that were associated with the condition being treated or related to the dialysis procedure. EXTRANEAL was additionally studied in a subpopulation of 92 high average/high transporter APD patients in a two-week controlled clinical trial where patients received a single daily exchange of EXTRANEAL (n=47) or dextrose control (n=45) for the long dwell (14 \\302\\261 2 hours). Consistent with the data reported in the original trials of EXTRANEAL, rash was the most frequently occurring event. Peritoneal Dialysis-Related Adverse Reactions Adverse events common to peritoneal dialysis therapy, including peritonitis, infection around the catheter, fluid and electrolyte imbalance, and pain, were observed at a similar frequency with EXTRANEAL and controls [See Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Clinical Laboratory Findings An increase in mean serum alkaline phosphatase has been observed in clinical studies of ESRD patients receiving EXTRANEAL. No associated increases in other liver chemistry tests were observed. Serum alkaline phosphatase levels did not show progressive increase over a 12-month study period. Levels returned to normal approximately two weeks after discontinuation of EXTRANEAL. Decreases in serum sodium and chloride have been observed in patients using EXTRANEAL. The mean change in serum sodium from baseline to the last study visit was -2.8 mmol/L for patients on EXTRANEAL and -0.3 mmol/L for patients on control solution. Four EXTRANEAL patients and two control patients developed serum sodium < 125 mmol/L. The mean change in serum chloride from baseline to last study visit was -2 mmol/L for EXTRANEAL patients and + 0.6 mmol/L for control patients. Similar changes in serum chemistries were observed in an additional clinical study in a subpopulation of high average/high transporter patients. The declines in serum sodium and chloride may be related to dilution resulting from the presence of icodextrin metabolites in plasma. An apparent decrease in serum amylase activity has been observed in patients administered EXTRANEAL. Preliminary investigations indicate that icodextrin and its metabolites interfere with enzymatic-based amylase assays, resulting in inaccurately low values. This should be taken into account when evaluating serum amylase levels for diagnosis or monitoring of pancreatitis in patients using EXTRANEAL. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of EXTRANEAL. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS: Fungal peritonitis, Peritonitis bacterial, Catheter related infection BLOOD AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM DISORDERS: Thrombocytopenia, Leukopenia, Leukocytosis IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS: Vasculitis, Serum sickness, Hypersensitivity METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS: Hypoglycemic shock, Dehydration NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS: Hypoglycemic coma, Burning sensation EYE DISORDERS: Vision blurred RESPIRATORY, THORACIC, AND MEDIASTINAL DISORDERS: Bronchospasm, Stridor GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS: Sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis, Aseptic peritonitis, Ileus, Ascites, Inguinal hernia SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS DISORDERS: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Angioedema, Urticaria generalized, Prurigo, Dermatitis (including bullous, allergic and contact), Erythema, Onychomadesis, Dry skin, Skin chapped, Blister MUSCULOSKELETAL, CONNECTIVE TISSUE DISORDERS: Arthralgia, Back pain, Musculoskeletal pain REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM AND BREAST DISORDERS: Penile edema, Scrotal edema GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE SITE CONDITIONS: Discomfort, Pyrexia, Chills, Malaise, Catheter site erythema, Catheter site inflammation, Infusion related reaction (including Infusion site pain, Instillation site pain) INVESTIGATIONS: Liver function test abnormal, Urine output decreased"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been no controlled clinical trials conducted to systematically assess the adverse events profile of sodium nitrite or sodium thiosulfate. The medical literature has reported the following adverse events in association with sodium nitrite or sodium thiosulfate administration. These adverse events were not reported in the context of controlled trials or with consistent monitoring and reporting methodologies for adverse events. Therefore, frequency of occurrence of these adverse events cannot be assessed. Most common adverse reactions are: Sodium nitrite: syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmia, methemoglobinemia, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, seizures, confusion, coma (6.1) Sodium thiosulfate: hypotension, headache, disorientation (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hope Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-755-9595 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Sodium Nitrite Cardiovascular system: syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, methemoglobinemia, palpitations, dysrhythmia Hematological: methemoglobinemia Central nervous system: headache, dizziness, blurred vision, seizures, confusion, coma Gastrointestinal system: nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain Respiratory system: tachypnea, dyspnea Body as a Whole: anxiety, diaphoresis, lightheadedness, injection site tingling, cyanosis, acidosis, fatigue, weakness, urticaria, generalized numbness and tingling Severe hypotension, methemoglobinemia, cardiac dysrhythmias, coma and death have been reported in patients without life-threatening cyanide poisoning but who were treated with injection of sodium nitrite at doses less than twice those recommended for the treatment of cyanide poisoning. 6.2 Sodium Thiosulfate Cardiovascular system: hypotension Central nervous system: headache, disorientation Gastrointestinal system: nausea, vomiting Hematological: prolonged bleeding time Body as a Whole: salty taste in mouth, warm sensation over body In humans, rapid administration of concentrated solutions or solutions not freshly prepared, and administration of large doses of sodium thiosulfate have been associated with a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting. However, administration of 0.1 g sodium thiosulfate per pound up to a maximum of 15 g in a 10-15% solution over 10-15 minutes was associated with nausea and vomiting in 7 of 26 patients without concomitant cyanide intoxication. In a series of 11 human subjects, a single intravenous infusion of 50 mL of 50% sodium thiosulfate was associated with increases in clotting time 1-3 days after administration. However, no significant changes were observed in other hematological parameters."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been no controlled clinical trials conducted to systematically assess the adverse events profile of sodium nitrite. The medical literature has reported the following adverse events in association with sodium nitrite administration. These adverse events were not reported in the context of controlled trials or with consistent monitoring and reporting methodologies for adverse events. Therefore, frequency of occurrence of these adverse events cannot be assessed. Cardiovascular system: syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, methemoglobinemia, palpitations, dysrhythmia Hematological: methemoglobinemia Central nervous system: headache, dizziness, blurred vision, seizures, confusion, coma Gastrointestinal system: nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain Respiratory system: tachypnea, dyspnea Body as a Whole: anxiety, diaphoresis, lightheadedness, injection site tingling, cyanosis, acidosis, fatigue, weakness, urticaria, generalized numbness and tingling Severe hypotension, methemoglobinemia, cardiac dysrhythmias, coma and death have been reported in patients without life-threatening cyanide poisoning but who were treated with injection of sodium nitrite at doses less than twice those recommended for the treatment of cyanide poisoning. Most common adverse reactions are: Syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, palpitations, dysrhythmia, methemoglobinemia, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, seizures, confusion, coma (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hope Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-755-9595 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been no controlled clinical trials conducted to systematically assess the adverse events profile of sodium thiosulfate. The medical literature has reported the following adverse events in association with sodium thiosulfate administration. These adverse events were not reported in the context of controlled trials or with consistent monitoring and reporting methodologies for adverse events. Therefore, frequency of occurrence of these adverse events cannot be assessed. Cardiovascular system: hypotension Central nervous system: headache, disorientation Gastrointestinal system: nausea, vomiting Hematological: prolonged bleeding time Body as a Whole: salty taste in mouth, warm sensation over body In humans, rapid administration of concentrated solutions or solutions not freshly prepared, and administration of large doses of sodium thiosulfate have been associated with a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting. However, administration of 0.1 g sodium thiosulfate per pound up to a maximum of 15 g in a 10-15% solution over 10-15 minutes was associated with nausea and vomiting in 7 of 26 patients without concomitant cyanide intoxication. In a series of 11 human subjects, a single intravenous infusion of 50 mL of 50% sodium thiosulfate was associated with increases in clotting time 1-3 days after administration. However, no significant changes were observed in other hematological parameters. Most common adverse reactions are: Hypotension, headache, disorientation (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hope Pharmaceuticals at 1-800-755-9595 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with other dialysis solutions, blood concentrations of dialyzable drugs may be reduced by dialysis. Dosage adjustment of concomitant medications may be necessary. In patients using cardiac glycosides (digoxin and others), plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Insulin: Patients with insulin-dependent diabetes may require modification of insulin dosage following initiation of treatment with EXTRANEAL. Monitor blood glucose and adjust insulin, if needed [see Boxed Warning]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of dialyzable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. 7.1 Citrate When used as an anticoagulant, citrate contributes to the overall buffer load and can reduce plasma calcium levels. Select the PRISMASOL/PHOXILLUM formulation(s) accordingly."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with the use of other replacement solutions, blood concentrations of filterable drugs may be influenced by CRRT. The blood concentrations of certain drugs may need to be monitored and appropriate therapy implemented to correct for removal during treatment. In patients with cardiovascular disease, especially those using cardiac glycoside medications, plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactions with the use of diclofenac sodium topical solution have not been studied. The following drug interactions [sections 7.1 to 7.7] are noted for oral diclofenac sodium. Concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects including increased GAI bleeding. ( 7.1) Concomitant use of anticoagulants and diclofenac have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. ( 7.2) 7.1 Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, the binding of diclofenac to protein is reduced, although the clearance of free diclofenac is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. 7.3 ACE-Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Consider this interaction in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.4 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. The response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] , as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. 7.5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.7 Cyclosporine Diclofenac, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.8 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Therefore, do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. 7.9 Topical Treatments Instruct patients that before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same skin surface of the knee treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution, they must wait until the treated area is completely dry."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactions with the use of diclofenac sodium topical solution have not been studied. The following drug interactions [sections 7.1 to 7.7] are noted for oral diclofenac sodium. Concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects including increased GAI bleeding. (7.1) Concomitant use of anticoagulants and diclofenac have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. (7.2) 7.1 Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, the binding of diclofenac to protein is reduced, although the clearance of free diclofenac is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. 7.2 Anticoagulants The effects of anticoagulants such as warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. 7.3 ACE-Inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Consider this interaction in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.4 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. The response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, observe the patient closely for signs of renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. 7.5 Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, and lithium are administered concurrently, observe patients carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. 7.6 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when NSAIDs, including diclofenac, are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. 7.7 Cyclosporine Diclofenac, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.8 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Therefore, do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. 7.9 Topical Treatments Instruct patients that before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same skin surface of the knee treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution, they must wait until the treated area is completely dry."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted with NITHIODOTE."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Nitrite Injection."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Formal drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Sodium Thiosulfate Injection."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The safety and compatibility of other additives have not been established. No interactions with other drugs or nutritional products are known. (7) The safety and compatibility of additives have not been established. (7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trails. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of ampicillin and sulbactam for injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section) Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with Ampicillin and Sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving Ampicillin and Sulbactam. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section) Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with Ampicillin and Sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving Ampicillin and Sulbactam. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section) Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients: Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients: Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of ampicillin and sulbactam for injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section) Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of ampicillin and sulbactam for injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section) Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of ampicillin and sulbactam for injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section) Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of ampicillin and sulbactam for injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue, and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section). Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue, and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section). Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with Ampicillin and Sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving Ampicillin and Sulbactam. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section) Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion. Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients: ampicillin and sulbactam for injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients: Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. The following adverse reactions have been reported with ampicillin-class antibiotics and can also occur with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Gastrointestinal: Gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue and enterocolitis. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment. (See WARNINGS.) Hypersensitivity Reactions: Urticaria, erythema multiforme, and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported. These reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and, if necessary, systemic corticosteroids. Whenever such reactions occur, the drug should be discontinued, unless the opinion of the physician dictates otherwise. Serious and occasional fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions can occur with a penicillin. (See WARNINGS.) Hematologic: In addition to the adverse laboratory changes listed above for ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, agranulocytosis has been reported during therapy with penicillins. All of these reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibiotics."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adult Patients Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site -16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. The following adverse reactions have been reported with ampicillin-class antibiotics and can also occur with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Gastrointestinal Gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue and enterocolitis. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hypersensitivity Reactions Urticaria, erythema multiforme, and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported. These reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and, if necessary, systemic corticosteroids. Whenever such reactions occur, the drug should be discontinued, unless the opinion of the physician dictates otherwise. Serious and occasional fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions can occur with a penicillin (see WARNINGS). Hematologic In addition to the adverse laboratory changes listed above for ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, agranulocytosis has been reported during therapy with penicillins. All of these reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibiotics."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. The following adverse reactions have been reported with ampicillin-class antibiotics and can also occur with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Gastrointestinal Gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue and enterocolitis. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment. (See WARNINGS.) Hypersensitivity Reactions Urticaria, erythema multiforme, and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported. These reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and, if necessary, systemic corticosteroids. Whenever such reactions occur, the drug should be discontinued, unless the opinion of the physician dictates otherwise. Serious and occasional fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions can occur with a penicillin. (See WARNINGS.) Hematologic In addition to the adverse laboratory changes listed above for Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection agranulocytosis has been reported during therapy with penicillins. All of these reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection as with other beta-lactam antibiotics. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Agila Specialties Private Limited at 1 877 244 9825 or www.stridesarco.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBCs and hyaline casts in urine. The following adverse reactions have been reported with ampicillin-class antibiotics and can also occur with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Gastrointestinal Gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and enterocolitis. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS). Hypersensitivity Reactions Urticaria, erythema multiforme, and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported. These reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and, if necessary, systemic corticosteroids. Whenever such reactions occur, the drug should be discontinued, unless the opinion of the physician dictates otherwise. Serious and occasional fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions can occur with penicillin (see WARNINGS). Hematologic In addition to the adverse laboratory changes listed above for ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, agranulocytosis has been reported during therapy with penicillins. All of these reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibiotics."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adult Patients Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. The following adverse reactions have been reported with ampicillin-class antibiotics and can also occur with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection. Gastrointestinal Gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue and enterocolitis. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS). Hypersensitivity Reactions Urticaria, erythema multiforme, and an occasional case of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported. These reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and, if necessary, systemic corticosteroids. Whenever such reactions occur, the drug should be discontinued, unless the opinion of the physician dictates otherwise. Serious and occasional fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions can occur with a penicillin (see WARNINGS). Hematologic In addition to the adverse laboratory changes listed above for Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection, agranulocytosis has been reported during therapy with penicillins. All of these reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection, as with other beta-lactam antibiotics."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients: Ampicillin and Sulbactam is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at I.M. injection site - 16% Pain at I.V. injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients: Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with Ampicillin and Sulbactam demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving Ampicillin and Sulbactam. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes,platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBCs and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS section) General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section). Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Antibiotice SA at 0040 232 209000 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients UNASYN is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with UNASYN demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving UNASYN. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of UNASYN or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to UNASYN. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with UNASYN, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section). Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adult Patients UNASYN is generally well tolerated. The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials. Local Adverse Reactions Pain at IM injection site - 16% Pain at IV injection site - 3% Thrombophlebitis - 3% Phlebitis - 1.2% Systemic Adverse Reactions The most frequently reported adverse reactions were diarrhea in 3% of the patients and rash in less than 2% of the patients. Additional systemic reactions reported in less than 1% of the patients were: itching, nausea, vomiting, candidiasis, fatigue, malaise, headache, chest pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, glossitis, urine retention, dysuria, edema, facial swelling, erythema, chills, tightness in throat, substernal pain, epistaxis and mucosal bleeding. Pediatric Patients Available safety data for pediatric patients treated with UNASYN demonstrate a similar adverse events profile to those observed in adult patients. Additionally, atypical lymphocytosis has been observed in one pediatric patient receiving UNASYN. Adverse Laboratory Changes Adverse laboratory changes without regard to drug relationship that were reported during clinical trials were: Hepatic: Increased AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), alkaline phosphatase, and LDH. Hematologic: Decreased hemoglobin, hematocrit, RBC, WBC, neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and increased lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets. Blood Chemistry: Decreased serum albumin and total proteins. Renal: Increased BUN and creatinine. Urinalysis: Presence of RBC's and hyaline casts in urine. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following have been identified during post-marketing use of UNASYN or other products containing ampicillin. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness, frequency, or potential causal connection to UNASYN. Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, and agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with UNASYN, as with other beta-lactam antibacterials. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Cholestatic hepatitis, cholestasis, hyperbilirubinemia, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, gastritis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue, and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS sections). General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Injection site reaction Immune System Disorders: Serious and fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (See WARNINGS section). Nervous System Disorders: Convulsion Renal and Urinary Disorders: Tubulointerstitial nephritis Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), urticaria, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse effects of sodium lactate are essentially limited to overdosage of either sodium or lactate ions. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of phosphate intoxication. Phosphate intoxication results in a reduction of serum calcium and the symptoms are those of hypocalcemic tetany (see WARNINGS )."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of phosphorus intoxication. Phosphorus intoxication results in a reduction of serum calcium and the symptoms are those of hypocalcemic tetany. See WARNINGS."$$
"Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions occurring with administration of peritoneal dialysis include mechanical and solution related problems as well as the results of contamination of equipment or improper technique in catheter placement. Abdominal pain, bleeding, peritonitis, subcutaneous infection around a peritoneal catheter, catheter blockage, difficulty in fluid removal, and ileus are among the complications of the procedure. Solution related adverse reactions might include peritonitis, catheter site infection, electrolyte and fluid imbalances, hypovolemia, hypervolemia, hypertension, hypotension, disequilibrium syndrome and muscle cramping. If an adverse reaction does occur, institute appropriate therapeutic procedures according to the patient's needs and conditions, and save the remainder of the fluid in the bag for evaluation if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have rarely been reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic reactions or anaphylactoid symptoms such as localized or generalized urticaria and pruritus; periorbital, facial, and/or laryngeal edema; coughing, sneezing, and/or difficulty with breathing have been reported during administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection USP. The reporting frequency of these signs and symptoms is higher in women during pregnancy. Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Although rare, sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-800-298-1087."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: As with other penicillins, it may be expected that untoward reactions will be essentially limited to sensitivity phenomena. They are more likely to occur in individuals who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to penicillins and in those with a history of allergy, asthma, hay fever, or urticaria. The following adverse reactions have been reported as associated with the use of ampicillin. Gastrointestinal Glossitis, stomatitis, black \\\\"hairy\\\\" tongue, nausea, vomiting, enterocolitis, pseudomembranous colitis, and diarrhea. (These reactions are usually associated with oral dosage forms.) Hypersensitivity Reactions Skin rashes and urticaria have been reported frequently. A few cases of exfoliative dermatitis and erythema multiforme have been reported. Anaphylaxis is the most serious reaction experienced and has usually been associated with the parenteral dosage form. Note: Urticaria, other skin rashes, and serum sickness-like reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and, if necessary, systemic corticosteroids. Whenever such reactions occur, ampicillin should be discontinued, unless, in the opinion of the physician, the condition being treated is life-threatening and amenable only to ampicillin therapy. Serious anaphylactic reactions require the immediate use of epinephrine, oxygen, and intravenous steroids. Liver A moderate rise in serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) has been noted, particularly in infants, but the significance of this finding is unknown. Mild transitory SGOT elevations have been observed in individuals receiving larger (two to four times) than usual and oft-repeated intramuscular injections. Evidence indicates that glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) is released at the site of intramuscular injection of ampicillin and that the presence of increased amounts of this enzyme in the blood does not necessarily indicate liver involvement. Hemic and Lymphatic Systems Anemia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, eosinophilia, leukopenia, and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with the penicillins. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena."$$
"Adverse Reactions As with other penicillins, it may be expected that untoward reactions will be essentially limited to sensitivity phenomena. They are more likely to occur in individuals who have previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to penicillins and in those with a history of allergy, asthma, hay fever or urticaria The following adverse reactions have been reported as associated with the use of ampicillin: Gastrointestinal: Glossitis, stomatitis, black "hairy" tongue, nausea, vomiting, enterocolitis, pseudomembranous colitis, and diarrhea. (These reactions are usually associated with oral dosage forms.) Hypersensitivity Reactions: Skin rashes and urticaria have been reported frequently. A few cases of exfoliative dermatitis and erythema multiforme have been reported. Anaphylaxis is the most serious reaction experienced and has usually been associated with the parenteral dosage form. Note: Urticaria, other skin rashes, and serum sickness-like reactions may be controlled with antihistamines and, if necessary, systemic corticosteroids. Whenever such reactions occur, ampicillin should be discontinued, unless, in the opinion of the physician, the condition being treated is life-threatening and amenable only to ampicillin therapy. Serious anaphylactic reactions require the immediate use of epinephrine, oxygen, and intravenous steroids. Liver: A moderate rise in serum glutamic oxaloacetic transminase (SGOT) has been noted, particularly in infants, but the significance of this finding is unknown. Mild transitory SGOT elevations have been observed in individuals receiving larger (two to four times) than usual and oft-repeated intramuscular injections. Evidence indicates that glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) is released at the site of intramuscular injection of Ampicillin for Injection and that the presence of increased amounts of this enzyme in the blood does not necessarily indicate liver involvement. Hemic and Lymphatic Systems: Anemia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, eosinophilia, leukopenia, and agranulocytosis have been reported during therapy with the penicillins. These reactions are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment, but some individuals have had immediate reactions to penicillin when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse, and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Local Reactions Pain, swelling, inflammation, phlebitis, thrombophlebitis, and occasional skin sloughing at the injection site have occurred with intravenous administration of nafcillin (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Severe tissue necrosis with sloughing secondary to subcutaneous extravasation of nafcillin has been reported. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G could occur with large intravenous doses of nafcillin especially in patients with concomitant hepatic insufficiency and renal dysfunction (see PRECAUTIONS ). Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated infrequently with the administration of nafcillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of nafcillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of nafcillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov .",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment, but some individuals have had immediate reactions to penicillin when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse, and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Local Reactions Pain, swelling, inflammation, phlebitis, thrombophlebitis, and occasional skin sloughing at the injection site have occurred with intravenous administration of nafcillin. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Severe tissue necrosis with sloughing secondary to subcutaneous extravasation of nafcillin has been reported. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G could occur with large intravenous or intraventricular doses of nafcillin especially in patients with concomitant hepatic insufficiency and renal dysfunction. (See PRECAUTIONS ). Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated infrequently with the administration of nafcillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of nafcillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of nafcillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov OVERDOSAGE Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may arise with intravenous doses of nafcillin especially in patients with concomitant hepatic insufficiency and renal dysfunction (see PRECAUTIONS ). In the case of overdosage, discontinue nafcillin, treat symptomatically and institute supportive measures as required. Hemodialysis does not increase the rate of clearance of nafcillin from the blood."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment, but some individuals have had immediate reactions to penicillin when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse, and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Local Reactions Pain, swelling, inflammation, phlebitis, thrombophlebitis, and occasional skin sloughing at the injection site have occurred with intravenous administration of nafcillin. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Severe tissue necrosis with sloughing secondary to subcutaneous extravasation of nafcillin has been reported. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G could occur with large intravenous or intraventricular doses of nafcillin especially in patients with concomitant hepatic insufficiency and renal dysfunction. (See PRECAUTIONS ). Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated infrequently with the administration of nafcillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of nafcillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of nafcillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment, but some individuals have had immediate reactions to penicillin when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse, and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Local Reactions Pain, swelling, inflammation, phlebitis, thrombophlebitis, and occasional skin sloughing at the injection site have occurred with intravenous administration of nafcillin. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Severe tissue necrosis with sloughing secondary to subcutaneous extravasation of nafcillin has been reported. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G could occur with large intravenous or intraventricular doses of nafcillin especially in patients with concomitant hepatic insufficiency and renal dysfunction. (See PRECAUTIONS ). Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated infrequently with the administration of nafcillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of nafcillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of nafcillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may occur with large intravenous doses of oxacillin, especially with patients with renal insufficiency. Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated infrequently with the administration of oxacillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of oxacillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Hepatotoxicity, characterized by fever, nausea, and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests, mainly elevated SGOT levels, has been associated with the use of oxacillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may occur with large intravenous doses of oxacillin, especially with patients with renal insufficiency. Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with the administration of oxacillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Nephropathy induced by penicillins does not appear to be dose-related and is generally reversible upon prompt discontinuation of therapy. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of oxacillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of oxacillin. Hepatotoxicity, characterized by fever, nausea, and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests, mainly elevated SGOT levels, has been associated with the use of oxacillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may occur with large intravenous doses of oxacillin, especially with patients with renal insufficiency. Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with the administration of oxacillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Nephropathy induced by penicillins does not appear to be dose-related and is generally reversible upon prompt discontinuation of therapy. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of oxacillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of oxacillin. Hepatotoxicity, characterized by fever, nausea, and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests, mainly elevated SGOT levels, has been associated with the use of oxacillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may occur with large intravenous doses of oxacillin, especially with patients with renal insufficiency. Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with the administration of oxacillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Nephropathy induced by penicillins does not appear to be dose-related and is generally reversible upon prompt discontinuation of therapy. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of oxacillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of oxacillin. Hepatotoxicity, characterized by fever, nausea, and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests, mainly elevated SGOT levels, has been associated with the use of oxacillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillins are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may occur with large intravenous doses of oxacillin, especially with patients with renal insufficiency. Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with the administration of oxacillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Nephropathy induced by penicillins does not appear to be dose-related and is generally reversible upon prompt discontinuation of therapy. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of oxacillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of oxacillin. Hepatotoxicity, characterized by fever, nausea, and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests, mainly elevated SGOT levels, has been associated with the use of oxacillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillins ranges from 0.7 to 10 percent (see WARNINGS ). Sensitization is usually the result of treatment but some individuals have had immediate reactions to penicillin when first treated. In such cases, it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk or vaccines. Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically, immediate and delayed. Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, hypotension, vascular collapse, and death. Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare (see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy. Another type of immediate reaction, an accelerated reaction, may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria, pruritus, and fever. Although laryngeal edema, laryngospasm, and hypotension occasionally occur, fatality is uncommon. Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness-like symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, urticaria, myalgia, arthralgia, abdominal pain) and various skin rashes. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, black or hairy tongue, and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur, especially during oral penicillin therapy. Local Reactions Pain, swelling, inflammation, phlebitis, thrombophlebitis, and occasional skin sloughing at the injection site have occurred with intravenous administration of nafcillin (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Severe tissue necrosis with sloughing secondary to subcutaneous extravasation of nafcillin has been reported. Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G could occur with large intravenous or intraventricular doses of nafcillin especially in patients with concomitant hepatic insufficiency and renal dysfunction (see PRECAUTIONS ). Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated infrequently with the administration of nafcillin. Manifestations of this reaction may include rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. Gastrointestinal Reactions Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with the use of nafcillin. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS ). Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis, neutropenia, and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of nafcillin. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cefoxitin for Injection is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following intravenous injection. Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently. Local Reactions Thrombophlebitis has occurred with intravenous administration. Allergic Reactions Rash (including exfoliative dermatitis and toxic epidermal necrolysis), urticaria, flushing, pruritus, eosinophilia, fever, dyspnea, and other allergic reactions including anaphylaxis, interstitial nephritis and angioedema have been noted. Cardiovascular Hypotension. Gastrointestinal Diarrhea, including documented pseudomembranous colitis which can appear during or after antibiotic treatment. Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Neuromuscular Possible exacerbation of myasthenia gravis Blood Eosinophilia, leukopenia including granulocytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, including hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and bone marrow depression. A positive direct Coombs test may develop in some individuals, especially those with azotemia. Liver Function Transient elevations in SGOT, SGPT, serum LDH, and serum alkaline phosphatase; and jaundice have been reported. Renal Function Elevations in serum creatinine and/or blood urea nitrogen levels have been observed. As with the cephalosporins, acute renal failure has been reported rarely. The role of Cefoxitin for Injection in changes in renal function tests is difficult to assess, since factors predisposing to prerenal azotemia or to impaired renal function usually have been present. In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with Cefoxitin for Injection, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, serum sickness-like reactions, abdominal pain, colitis, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, false-positive test for urinary glucose, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, elevated bilirubin, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, prolonged prothrombin time, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, superinfection, vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS CEFOXITIN FOR INJECTION is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following intravenous injection. Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently. Local Reactions Thrombophlebitis has occurred with intravenous administration. Allergic Reactions Rash (including exfoliative dermatitis and toxic epidermal necrolysis), urticaria, flushing, pruritus, eosinophilia, fever, dyspnea, and other allergic reactions including anaphylaxis, interstitial nephritis and angioedema have been noted. Cardiovascular Hypotension. Gastrointestinal Diarrhea, including documented pseudomembranous colitis which can appear during or after antibiotic treatment. Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Neuromuscular Possible exacerbation of myasthenia gravis Blood Eosinophilia, leukopenia including granulocytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, including hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and bone marrow depression. A positive direct Coombs test may develop in some individuals, especially those with azotemia. Liver Function Transient elevations in SGOT, SGPT, serum LDH, and serum alkaline phosphatase; and jaundice have been reported. Renal Function Elevations in serum creatinine and/or blood urea nitrogen levels have been observed. As with the cephalosporins, acute renal failure has been reported rarely. The role of CEFOXITIN FOR INJECTION in changes in renal function tests is difficult to assess, since factors predisposing to prerenal azotemia or to impaired renal function usually have been present. In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with CEFOXITIN FOR INJECTION, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, serum sickness-like reactions, abdominal pain, colitis, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, false-positive test for urinary glucose, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, elevated bilirubin, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, prolonged prothrombin time, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, superinfection, vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cefoxitin for Injection is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following intravenous injection. Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently. Local Reactions Thrombophlebitis has occurred with intravenous administration. Allergic Reactions Rash (including exfoliative dermatitis and toxic epidermal necrolysis), urticaria, flushing, pruritus, eosinophilia, fever, dyspnea, and other allergic reactions including anaphylaxis, interstitial nephritis and angioedema have been noted. Cardiovascular Hypotension. Gastrointestinal Diarrhea, including documented pseudomembranous colitis which can appear during or after antibiotic treatment. Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Neuromuscular Possible exacerbation of myasthenia gravis. Blood Eosinophilia, leukopenia including granulocytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, including hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and bone marrow depression. A positive direct Coombs test may develop in some individuals, especially those with azotemia. Liver Function Transient elevations in SGOT, SGPT, serum LDH, and serum alkaline phosphatase; and jaundice have been reported. Renal Function Elevations in serum creatinine and/or blood urea nitrogen levels have been observed. As with the cephalosporins, acute renal failure has been reported rarely. The role of Cefoxitin for Injection in changes in renal function tests is difficult to assess, since factors predisposing to prerenal azotemia or to impaired renal function usually have been present. In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with Cefoxitin for Injection, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Urticaria, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, serum sickness-like reactions, abdominal pain, colitis, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, false-positive test for urinary glucose, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, elevated bilirubin, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, prolonged prothrombin time, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, superinfection, vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone for injection is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone for injection therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: Local Reactions \\342\\200\\224 pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. Hypersensitivity \\342\\200\\224 rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. Hematologic \\342\\200\\224 eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. Gastrointestinal \\342\\200\\224 diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hepatic \\342\\200\\224 elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. Renal \\342\\200\\224 elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. Central Nervous System \\342\\200\\224 headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). Genitourinary \\342\\200\\224 moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). Miscellaneous \\342\\200\\224 diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone for injection. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. Gastrointestinal - stomatitis and glossitis. Genitourinary - oliguria. Dermatologic - exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Ceftriaxone for injection is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone for injection therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: LOCAL REACTIONS - pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. HYPERSENSITIVITY - rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. HEMATOLOGIC - eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. GASTROINTESTINAL - diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS). HEPATIC - elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. RENAL - elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM - headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). GENITOURINARY - moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). MISCELLANEOUS - diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Cases of fatal reactions with calcium-ceftriaxone precipitates in lung and kidneys in neonates have been described. In some cases the infusion lines and times of administration of ceftriaxone and calcium-containing solutions differed (see CONTRAINDICATIONS)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone for injection is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone for injection therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: Local Reactions - pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. Hypersensitivity - rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. Hematologic - eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. Gastrointestinal - diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hepatic - elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. Renal - elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. Central Nervous System - headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). Genitourinary - moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). Miscellaneous - diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience: In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone for injection. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone for injection and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone for injection and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone for injection and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. Gastrointestinal - stomatitis and glossitis. Genitourinary - oliguria. Dermatologic - exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests: Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: LOCAL REACTIONS\\342\\200\\224pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. HYPERSENSITIVITY\\342\\200\\224rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. HEMATOLOGIC\\342\\200\\224eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. GASTROINTESTINAL\\342\\200\\224diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). HEPATIC\\342\\200\\224elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. RENAL\\342\\200\\224elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM\\342\\200\\224headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). GENITOURINARY\\342\\200\\224moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). MISCELLANEOUS\\342\\200\\224diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. GASTROINTESTINAL-stomatitis and glossitis. GENITOURINARY-oliguria. DERMATOLOGIC Exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests: Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX). or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: LOCAL REACTIONS \\342\\200\\224 pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. HYPERSENSITIVITY \\342\\200\\224 rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. HEMATOLOGIC \\342\\200\\224 eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. GASTROINTESTINAL \\342\\200\\224 diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). HEPATIC \\342\\200\\224 elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. RENAL \\342\\200\\224 elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM \\342\\200\\224 headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). GENITOURINARY \\342\\200\\224 moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). MISCELLANEOUS \\342\\200\\224 diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience: In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. GASTROINTESTINAL - stomatitis and glossitis. GENITOURINARY - oliguria. DERMATOLOGIC - exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests: Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: LOCAL REACTIONS \\342\\200\\224 pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. HYPERSENSITIVITY \\342\\200\\224 rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. HEMATOLOGIC \\342\\200\\224 eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. GASTROINTESTINAL \\342\\200\\224 diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS). HEPATIC \\342\\200\\224 elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. RENAL \\342\\200\\224 elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM \\342\\200\\224 headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). GENITOURINARY \\342\\200\\224 moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). MISCELLANEOUS \\342\\200\\224 diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience: In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. GASTROINTESTINAL - stomatitis and glossitis. GENITOURINARY - oliguria. DERMATOLOGIC - exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests: Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: Local Reactions pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions injection site pain (0.6%) Hypersensitivity rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. Infections and Infestations genital fungal infection (0.1%) Hematologic eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. Blood and Lymphatic Disorders granulocytopenia (0.9%), coagulopathy (0.4%) Gastrointestinal diarrhea/loose stools (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hepatic elevations of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (3.1%) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. Renal elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. Central Nervous System headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). Genitourinary moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). Miscellaneous diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Investigations blood creatinine increased (0.6%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. Gastrointestinal pancreatitis, stomatitis and glossitis. Genitourinary oliguria, ureteric obstruction, post-renal acute renal failure. Dermatologic exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema; acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) and isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Hematological Changes isolated cases of agranulocytosis (< 500/mm3) have been reported, most of them after 10 days of treatment and following total doses of 20 g or more. Nervous System Disorders convulsion Other, Adverse Reactions symptomatic precipitation of ceftriaxone calcium salt in the gallbladder, kernicterus, oliguria, and anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH (see PRECAUTIONS ). Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: Local Reactions pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions injection site pain (0.6%). Hypersensitivity rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. Infections and Infestations genital fungal infection (0.1%) Hematologic eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. Blood and Lymphatic Disorders granulocytopenia (0.9%), coagulopathy (0.4%) Gastrointestinal diarrhea/loose stools (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hepatic elevations of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (3.1%) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. Renal elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. Central Nervous System headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). Genitourinary moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). Miscellaneous diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Investigations blood creatinine increased (0.6%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. Gastrointestinal pancreatitis, stomatitis and glossitis. Genitourinary oliguria, ureteric obstruction, post-renal acute renal failure. Dermatologic exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema; acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) and isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Hematological Changes isolated cases of agranulocytosis (< 500/mm3) have been reported, most of them after 10 days of treatment and following total doses of 20 g or more. Nervous System Disorders convulsion Other, Adverse Reactions symptomatic precipitation of ceftriaxone calcium salt in the gallbladder, kernicterus, oliguria, and anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH (see PRECAUTIONS ). Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: Local Reactions - pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. Hypersensitivity - rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1 %) were pruritus, fever or chills. Hematologic - eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. Gastrointestinal - diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hepatic - elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1 %) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. Renal - elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1 %) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. Central Nervous System - headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1 %). Genitourinary - moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). Miscellaneous - diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (< 1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (< 0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience: In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. Gastrointestinal - stomatitis and glossitis. Genitourinary - oliguria. Dermatologic - exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests: Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: Local Reactions pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. Hypersensitivity rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. Hematologic eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. Gastrointestinal diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hepatic elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. Renal elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. Central Nervous System headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). Genitourinary moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). Miscellaneous diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. Gastrointestinal stomatitis and glossitis. Genitourinary oliguria. Dermatologic exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Ceftriaxone is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to ceftriaxone therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. diarrhea (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). elevations of SGOT (3.1%) or SGPT (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with ceftriaxone. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom ceftriaxone and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. stomatitis and glossitis. oliguria. exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema. As with many medications, isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cefuroxime is generally well-tolerated. The most common adverse effects have been local reactions following IV administration. Other adverse reactions have been encountered only rarely. Local Reactions: Thrombophlebitis has occurred with IV administration in 1 in 60 patients. Gastrointestinal: Gastrointestinal symptoms occurred in 1 in 150 patients and included diarrhea (1 in 220 patients) and nausea (1 in 440 patients). The onset of pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in fewer than 1% of the patients treated with cefuroxime and include rash (1 in 125). Pruritus, urticaria, and positive Coombs' test each occurred in fewer than 1 in 250 patients, and, as with other cephalosporins, rare cases of anaphylaxis, drug fever, erythema multiforme, interstitial nephritis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have occurred. Blood: A decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit has been observed in 1 in 10 patients and transient eosinophilia in 1 in 14 patients. Less common reactions seen were transient neutropenia (fewer than 1 in 100 patients) and leukopenia (1 in 750 patients). A similar pattern and incidence were seen with other cephalosporins used in controlled studies. As with other cephalosporins, there have been rare reports of thrombocytopenia. Hepatic: Transient rise in SGOT and SGPT (1 in 25 patients), alkaline phosphatase (1 in 50 patients), LDH (1 in 75 patients), and bilirubin (1 in 500 patients) levels has been noted. Kidney: Elevations in serum creatinine and/or blood urea nitrogen and a decreased creatinine clearance have been observed, but their relationship to cefuroxime is unknown. Postmarketing Experience with Cefuroxime for Injection, USP Products: In addition to the adverse events reported during clinical trials, the following events have been observed during clinical practice in patients treated with cefuroxime and were reported spontaneously. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. Immune System Disorders: Cutaneous vasculitis. Neurologic: Seizure. Non-site specific: Angioedema. Cephalosporin-class Adverse Reactions: In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefuroxime, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin-class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Vomiting, abdominal pain, colitis, vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis, toxic nephropathy, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage. Several cephalosporins, including cefuroxime, have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy should occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated. Altered Laboratory Tests: Prolonged prothrombin time, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cefuroxime is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse effects have been local reactions following IV administration. Other adverse reactions have been encountered only rarely. Local Reactions: Thrombophlebitis has occurred with IV administration in 1 in 60 patients. Gastrointestinal: Gastrointestinal symptoms occurred in 1 in 150 patients and included diarrhea (1 in 220 patients) and nausea (1 in 440 patients). The onset of pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). Hypersensitivity Reactions: Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in fewer than 1% of the patients treated with cefuroxime and include rash (1 in 125). Pruritus, urticaria, and positive Coombs' test each occurred in fewer than 1 in 250 patients, and, as with other cephalosporins, rare cases of anaphylaxis, drug fever, erythema multiforme, interstitial nephritis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have occurred. Blood: A decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit has been observed in 1 in 10 patients and transient eosinophilia in 1 in 14 patients. Less common reactions seen were transient neutropenia (fewer than 1 in 100 patients) and leukopenia (1 in 750 patients). A similar pattern and incidence were seen with other cephalosporins used in controlled studies. As with other cephalosporins, there have been rare reports of thrombocytopenia. Hepatic: Transient rise in SGOT and SGPT (1 in 25 patients), alkaline phosphatase (1 in 50 patients), LDH (1 in 75 patients), and bilirubin (1 in 500 patients) levels has been noted. Kidney: Elevations in serum creatinine and/or blood urea nitrogen and a decreased creatinine clearance have been observed, but their relationship to cefuroxime is unknown. Postmarketing Experience with Cefuroxime for Injection, USP Products: In addition to the adverse events reported during clinical trials, the following events have been observed during clinical practice in patients treated with cefuroxime for injection and were reported spontaneously. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. Immune System Disorders: Cutaneous vasculitis. Neurologic: Seizure. Non-site specific: Angioedema. Cephalosporin-class Adverse Reactions: In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefuroxime, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin-class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Vomiting, abdominal pain, colitis, vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis, toxic nephropathy, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage. Several cephalosporins, including cefuroxime, have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy should occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated. Altered Laboratory Tests: Prolonged prothrombin time, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience CLAFORAN is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following IM or IV injection. Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently. The most frequent adverse reactions (greater than 1%) are: Local (4.3%) - Injection site inflammation with IV administration. Pain, induration, and tenderness after IM injection. Hypersensitivity (2.4%) - Rash, pruritus, fever, eosinophilia. Gastrointestinal (1.4%) - Colitis, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis can appear during or after antibiotic treatment. Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Less frequent adverse reactions (less than 1%) are: Hematologic System - Neutropenia, leukopenia, have been reported. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with CLAFORAN and other cephalosporin antibiotics. Genitourinary System - Moniliasis, vaginitis. Central Nervous System - Headache. Liver - Transient elevations in AST, ALT, serum LDH, and serum alkaline phosphatase levels have been reported. Kidney - As with some other cephalosporins, transient elevations of BUN have been occasionally observed with CLAFORAN. Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of CLAFORAN. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular System - Potentially life-threatening arrhythmias following rapid (less than 60 seconds) bolus administration via central venous catheter have been observed. Central Nervous System - Administration of high doses of beta-lactam antibiotics, including cefotaxime, particularly in patients with renal insufficiency may result in encephalopathy (e.g. impairment of consciousness, abnormal movements and convulsions). Dizziness has also been reported. Cutaneous - As with other cephalosporins, isolated cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme have been reported. Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) has also been reported. General disorders and administration site conditions - Inflammatory reactions at the injection site, including phlebitis/thrombophlebitis. Hematologic System - Hemolytic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, bone marrow failure. Hypersensitivity - Anaphylaxis (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm, malaise possibly culminating in shock), urticaria. Kidney - Interstitial nephritis, transient elevations of creatinine, acute renal failure. Liver - Hepatitis, jaundice, cholestasis, elevations of gamma GT and bilirubin. Cephalosporin Class Labeling In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with cefotaxime sodium, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: allergic reactions, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and false-positive test for urinary glucose. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and OVERDOSAGE . If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience CLAFORAN is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following IM or IV injection. Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently. The most frequent adverse reactions (greater than 1%) are: Local (4.3%) - Injection site inflammation with IV administration. Pain, induration, and tenderness after IM injection. Hypersensitivity (2.4%) - Rash, pruritus, fever, eosinophilia. Gastrointestinal (1.4%) - Colitis, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis can appear during or after antibiotic treatment. Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Less frequent adverse reactions (less than 1%) are: Hematologic System - Neutropenia, transient leukopenia, have been reported. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with CLAFORAN and other cephalosporin antibiotics. Genitourinary System - Moniliasis, vaginitis. Central Nervous System - Headache. Liver - Transient elevations in AST, ALT,serum LDH, and serum alkaline phosphatase levels have been reported. Kidney - As with some other cephalosporins, transient elevations of BUN and creatinine have been occasionally observed with CLAFORAN. Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of CLAFORAN. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular System - Potentially life-threatening arrhythmias following rapid (less than 60 seconds) bolus administration via central venous catheter have been observed. Central Nervous System - Administration of high doses of beta-lactam antibiotics, including cefotaxime, particularly in patients with renal insufficiency may result in encephalopathy (e.g. impairment of consciousness, abnormal movements and convulsions). Cutaneous - As with other cephalosporins, isolated cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme have been reported. Hematologic System - Hemolytic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity - Anaphylaxis (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm, malaise possibly culminating in shock), urticaria. Kidney - Interstitial nephritis, transient elevations of creatinine. Liver - Hepatitis, jaundice, cholestasis, elevations of gamma GT and bilirubin. Cephalosporin Class Labeling In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with cefotaxime sodium, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: allergic reactions, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and false-positive test for urinary glucose. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and OVERDOSAGE. If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Contact with abraded or sensitive gingival tissue may produce discomfort. Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Developing teeth of children under age 6 may become permanently discolored if excessive amounts are repeatedly swallowed. The following adverse reactions are possible in individuals hypersensitive to fluoride: eczema, atopic dermatitis, urticaria, gastric distress, headache and weakness. In patients with mucositis, gingival tissues may be hypersensitive to the flavor."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Donors being reinfused with citrated blood or blood components may experience side effects due to the presence of citrate. Patients being transfused with the blood components could also experience a reaction to the citrated blood components. The major symptom experienced by donors is paraesthesia. Should this occur the reinfusion should be stopped or the reinfusion rate decreased. In the event of inadvertent bolus of the product administer calcium gluconate."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Sodium retention Fluid retention Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients Potassium loss Hypokalemic alkalosis Hypertension Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness Steroid myopathy Loss of muscle mass Osteoporosis Vertebral compression fractures Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads Tendon rupture Pathologic fracture of long bones Gastrointestinal: Peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage Perforation of the small and large bowel; particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease Pancreatitis Abdominal distention Ulcerative esophagitis Dermatologic: Impaired wound healing Thin fragile skin Petechiae and ecchymoses Erythema Increased sweating May suppress reactions to skin tests Burning or tingling, especially in the perineal area (after IV injection) Other cutaneous reactions, such as allergic dermatitis, urticaria, angioneurotic edema Neurologic: Convulsions Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually after treatment Vertigo Headache Psychic disturbances Endocrine: Menstrual irregularities Development of cushingoid state Suppression of growth in pediatric patients Secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness Decreased carbohydrate tolerance Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus Increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics Hirsutism Ophthalmic: Posterior subcapsular cataracts Increased intraocular pressure Glaucoma Exophthalmos Retinopathy of prematurity Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism Cardiovascular: Myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in low birth weight infants Other: Anaphylactoid or hypersensitivity reactions Thromboembolism Weight gain Increased appetite Nausea Malaise Hiccups The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy Sterile abscess Charcot-like arthropathy",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, atulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, atulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole : fever, infection, sepsis C ardiovascular System : congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System : dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System : ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional : weight changes Nervous System : anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System : asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages : alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses : blurred vision Urogenital System : cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole : anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System : arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System : colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System : agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperglycemia Nervous System : convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System : respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages : angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses : conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients with mucositis, gingival tissues may be hypersensitive to flavor or alcohol present in formulation. Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies are rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients with mucositis, gingival tissues may be hypersensitive to flavor present in the formulation. Allergic reactions are rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glucosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic section). Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS None known."$$
"Adverse Reactions Overly aggressive therapy with Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP can result in metabolic alkalosis (associated with muscular twitchings, irritability and tetany) and hypernatremia. Inadvertent extravasation of intravenously administered hypertonic solutions of sodium bicarbonate have been reported to cause chemical cellulitis because of their alkalinity, with tissue necrosis, ulceration or sloughing at the site of infiltration. Prompt elevation of the part, warmth and local injection of lidocaine or hyaluronidase are recommended to prevent sloughing of extravasated I.V. infusions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Overly aggressive therapy with Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP can result in metabolic alkalosis (associated with muscular twitchings, irritability and tetany) and hypernatremia. Inadvertent extravasation of intravenously administered hypertonic solutions of sodium bicarbonate have been reported to cause chemical cellulitis because of their alkalinity, with tissue necrosis, ulceration or sloughing at the site of infiltration. Prompt elevation of the part, warmth and local injection of lidocaine or hyaluronidase are recommended to prevent sloughing of extravasated I.V. infusions."$$
"Adverse Reactions Overly aggressive therapy with Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP can result in metabolic alkalosis (associated with muscular twitchings, irritability, and tetany) and hypernatremia. Inadvertent extravasation of intravenously administered hypertonic solutions of sodium bicarbonate have been reported to cause chemical cellulitis because of their alkalinity, with tissue necrosis, ulceration or sloughing at the site of infiltration. Prompt elevation of the part, warmth and local injection of lidocaine or hyaluronidase are recommended to reduce the likelihood of tissue sloughing from extravasated I.V. solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Overly aggressive therapy with Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP can result in metabolic alkalosis (associated with muscular twitchings, irritability, and tetany) and hypernatremia. Inadvertent extravasation of intravenously administered hypertonic solutions of sodium bicarbonate have been reported to cause chemical cellulitis because of their alkalinity, with tissue necrosis, ulceration or sloughing at the site of infiltration. Prompt elevation of the part, warmth and local injection of lidocaine or hyaluronidase are recommended to reduce the likelihood of tissue sloughing from extravasated I.V. solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions A 3.5% to 5% solution of amino acids (without additives) is slightly hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Electrolyte additives should be spread throughout the day. Irritating additive medications may need to be infused at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions Aminosyn 3.5% M* Sulfite-Free, (a crystalline amino acid solution* with maintenance electrolytes) is hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may need to be injected at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions No adverse reactions were identified in Baxter's Adverse Event Reporting System database with Lactated Ringer's Irrigation. Class Reactions Adverse reactions reported with Lactated Ringer's Irrigation (manufacturer unspecified) are: Fluid absorption manifested by Pulmonary edema, Edema, and Electrolyte disturbances. Though not indicated for intravenous administration, absorption of irrigation fluid into tissue or vasculature through a perforation or open wound is possible. As a result, adverse reactions reported with Lactated Ringer's solutions with and without Dextrose for intravenous administration may be applicable and include: -Hypersensitivity reactions, including Anaphylactic/Anaphylactoid reactions, with the following manifestations: Angioedema, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Decreased heart rate, Tachycardia, Blood pressure decreased, Respiratory distress, Bronchospasm, Dyspnea, Cough, Urticaria, Rash, Pruritus, Erythema, Flushing, Throat irritation, Paresthesias, Hypoesthesia oral, Dysgeusia, Nausea, Anxiety, Headache, Hyperkalemia -Pyrexia Overdose In the event of clinically relevant absorption of irrigation fluid, the patients must be evaluated and corrective measures instituted as appropriate."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety and headache Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, nausea and pyrexia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Class Reactions -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing -Hyperkalemia -Hypervolemia -Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. Excessive administration of a dextrose-containing solution may lead to hyperglycemia, hyperosmolarity, osmotic diuresis, and dehydration. When assessing overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning Class Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Hypervolemia Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) Overdose An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression, amnesia, headaches, drowsiness, disorientation, syncope, hallucinations, hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles, dysphagia, arrhythmias and coma. Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability, including cramps and convulsions. Although the metabolism of lactate to bicarbonate is a relatively slow process, aggressive administration of sodium lactate may result in metabolic alkalosis. Careful monitoring of blood acid-base balance is essential during the administration of sodium lactate. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, laryngeal edema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, anxiety, headache, and sneezing. Hyperkalemia Hypervolemia Other infusion site reactions: infection at the site of injection, phlebitis, extravasation, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pain, infusion site burning."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solutions or technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary. Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported with potassium therapy. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, flaccid paralysis, listlessness, mental confusion, weakness and heaviness of the legs, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves, spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest. Potassium-containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues. Therefore, extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration. Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs. Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported. Should perivascular infiltration occur, I.V. administration at that site should be discontinued at once. Local infiltration of the affected area with procaine hydrochloride, 1%, to which hyaluronidase may be added, will often reduce venospasm and dilute the potassium remaining in the tissues locally. Local application of heat may also be helpful."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide are uncommon. The following adverse reactions, reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sodium sulfacetamide, are noteworthy: instances of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus; in one case a fatal outcome was reported (see WARNINGS)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Rocephin is generally well tolerated. In clinical trials, the following adverse reactions, which were considered to be related to Rocephin therapy or of uncertain etiology, were observed: LOCAL REACTIONS\\342\\200\\224pain, induration and tenderness was 1% overall. Phlebitis was reported in <1% after IV administration. The incidence of warmth, tightness or induration was 17% (3/17) after IM administration of 350 mg/mL and 5% (1/20) after IM administration of 250 mg/mL. GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS\\342\\200\\224injection site pain (0.6%). HYPERSENSITIVITY\\342\\200\\224rash (1.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were pruritus, fever or chills. INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS\\342\\200\\224genital fungal infection (0.1%). HEMATOLOGIC\\342\\200\\224eosinophilia (6%), thrombocytosis (5.1%) and leukopenia (2.1%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were anemia, hemolytic anemia, neutropenia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia and prolongation of the prothrombin time. BLOOD AND LYMPHATIC DISORDERS\\342\\200\\224granulocytopenia (0.9%), coagulopathy (0.4%). GASTROINTESTINAL\\342\\200\\224diarrhea/loose stools (2.7%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were nausea or vomiting, and dysgeusia. The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment (see WARNINGS ). HEPATIC\\342\\200\\224elevations of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (3.1%) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (3.3%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin. RENAL\\342\\200\\224elevations of the BUN (1.2%). Less frequently reported (<1%) were elevations of creatinine and the presence of casts in the urine. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM\\342\\200\\224headache or dizziness were reported occasionally (<1%). GENITOURINARY\\342\\200\\224moniliasis or vaginitis were reported occasionally (<1%). MISCELLANEOUS\\342\\200\\224diaphoresis and flushing were reported occasionally (<1%). INVESTIGATIONS\\342\\200\\224blood creatinine increased (0.6%). Other rarely observed adverse reactions (<0.1%) include abdominal pain, agranulocytosis, allergic pneumonitis, anaphylaxis, basophilia, biliary lithiasis, bronchospasm, colitis, dyspepsia, epistaxis, flatulence, gallbladder sludge, glycosuria, hematuria, jaundice, leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, nephrolithiasis, palpitations, a decrease in the prothrombin time, renal precipitations, seizures, and serum sickness. Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported during clinical trials, the following adverse experiences have been reported during clinical practice in patients treated with Rocephin. Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation. A small number of cases of fatal outcomes in which a crystalline material was observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy have been reported in neonates receiving Rocephin and calcium-containing fluids. In some of these cases, the same intravenous infusion line was used for both Rocephin and calcium-containing fluids and in some a precipitate was observed in the intravenous infusion line. At least one fatality has been reported in a neonate in whom Rocephin and calcium-containing fluids were administered at different time points via different intravenous lines; no crystalline material was observed at autopsy in this neonate. There have been no similar reports in patients other than neonates. GASTROINTESTINAL - pancreatitis, stomatitis and glossitis. GENITOURINARY - oliguria, ureteric obstruction, post-renal acute renal failure. DERMATOLOGIC - exanthema, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, edema; acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) and isolated cases of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported. HEMATOLOGICAL CHANGES - Isolated cases of agranulocytosis (< 500/mm3) have been reported, most of them after 10 days of treatment and following total doses of 20 g or more. NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS - convulsion OTHER, Adverse Reactions - symptomatic precipitation of ceftriaxone calcium salt in the gallbladder, kernicterus, oliguria, and anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions. Cephalosporin Class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with ceftriaxone, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory test results have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: Adverse Reactions: Allergic reactions, drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and superinfection. Altered Laboratory Tests: Positive direct Coombs' test, false-positive test for urinary glucose, and elevated LDH (see PRECAUTIONS ). Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition . Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis, and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution infused, therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Infrequent instances of hyperammonemia have been reported following administration of essential amino acid solutions to patients with massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage, nonuremic infants and pediatric patients or following administration of higher than recommended doses to adult or pediatric patients. Elevated plasma amino acid levels (hypermethionemia) have also been reported in infants especially in higher dosage ranges. Elevated serum ammonia levels, plasma amino acid levels, and clinical symptoms may subside when the infusions are discontinued. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany, and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See \\\\"WARNINGS\\\\" and \\\\"Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition.\\\\" Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reactions of the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported during peripheral administration of amino acids. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See \\\\"WARNINGS\\\\" and \\\\"Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition\\\\" . Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reactions of the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported during peripheral administration of amino acids. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions are possible in individuals hypersensitive to fluoride: eczema, atopic dermatitis, urticaria, gastric distress, headache, and weakness."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of DIANEAL. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship during drug exposure. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity. INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS: Fungal peritonitis, Peritonitis bacterial, Catheter related infection METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS: Hypovolemia, Hypervolemia, Fluid retention, Hypokalemia, Hyponatremia, Dehydration, Hypochloremia VASCULAR DISORDERS: Hypotension, Hypertension RESPIRATORY, THORACIC, AND MEDIASTINAL DISORDERS: Dyspnea GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS: Sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis, Peritonitis, Peritoneal cloudy effluent, Vomiting, Diarrhea, Nausea, Constipation, Abdominal pain, Abdominal distension, Abdominal discomfort SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS DISORDERS: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, Urticaria, Rash, (including pruritic, erythematous and generalized), Pruritus MUSCULOSKELETAL, CONNECTIVE TISSUE DISORDERS: Myalgia, Muscle spasms, Musculoskeletal pain GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS: Generalized edema, Pyrexia, Malaise, Infusion site pain, Catheter related complication"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in the post-marketing experience, listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC). Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, and the following manifestations: angioedema, chest pain, chest discomfort, decreased heart rate, tachycardia, blood pressure decreased, respiratory distress, bronchospasm, dyspnea, cough, urticaria, rash, pruritus, erythema, flushing, throat irritation, paresthesias, hypoesthesia oral, dysgeusia, nausea, anxiety, pyrexia, headache Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions, including phlebitis, infusion site inflammation, infusion site swelling, infusion site rash, infusion site pruritus, infusion site erythema, infusion site pain, infusion site burning. Hypersensitivity reactions, including, laryngeal edema and sneezing Infusion site reactions, including Infection at the site of injection, extravasation, and infusion site anesthesia (numbness) An excessive volume or too high a rate of administration of Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of lactate may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of calcium salts may lead to hypercalcemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with DEPO-MEDROL or other corticosteroids: Allergic reactions: Allergic or hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intra-lesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmoses, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, injection site infections following non-sterile administration (see WARNINGS ), malaise, moon face, weight gain. The following adverse reactions have been reported with the following routes of administration: Intrathecal/Epidural: Arachnoiditis, bowel/bladder dysfunction, headache, meningitis, parapareisis/paraplegia, seizures, sensory disturbances. Intranasal: Allergic reactions, rhinitis, temporary/permanent visual impairment including blindness. Ophthalmic: Increased intraocular pressure, infection, ocular and periocular inflammation including allergic reactions, residue or slough at injection site, temporary/permanent visual impairment including blindness. Miscellaneous injection sites (scalp, tonsillar fauces, sphenopalatine ganglion): blindness.",$$
"Adverse Reactions The following reactions have been reported: Gastrointestinal Diarrhea, oral candidiasis (oral thrush), vomiting, nausea, stomach cramps, anorexia, and pseudomembranous colitis. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment (see WARNINGS). Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Allergic Anaphylaxis, eosinophilia, itching, drug fever, skin rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Hematologic Neutropenia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocythemia. Hepatic and Renal Transient rise in SGOT, SGPT, and alkaline phosphatase levels has been observed without clinical evidence of renal or hepatic impairment. Local Reactions Rare instances of phlebitis have been reported at site of injection. Pain at teh site of injection after intramuscular administration has occurred infrequently. Some induration has occurred. Other Reactions Genital and anal pruritus (including vulvar pruritus, genital moniliasis, and vaginitis)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS THE MAJOR TOXICITY OF FOSCARNET SODIUM IS RENAL IMPAIRMENT (see WARNINGS section). Approximately 33% of 189 patients with AIDS and CMV retinitis who received foscarnet sodium (60 mg/kg TID), without adequate hydration, developed significant impairment of renal function (serum creatinine >=2.0 mg/dL). The incidence of renal impairment in subsequent clinical trials in which 1000 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection or 5% dextrose solution was given with each infusion of foscarnet sodium was 12% (34/280). Foscarnet sodium has been associated with changes in serum electrolytes including hypocalcemia (15 to 30%), hypophosphatemia (8 to 26%) and hyperphosphatemia (6%), hypomagnesemia (15 to 30%), and hypokalemia (16 to 48%) (see WARNINGS section). The higher percentages were derived from those patients receiving hydration. Foscarnet sodium treatment was associated with seizures in 18/189 (10%) AIDS patients in the initial five controlled studies (see WARNINGS section). Risk factors associated with seizures included impaired baseline renal function, low total serum calcium, and underlying CNS conditions predisposing the patient to seizures. The rate of seizures did not increase with duration of treatment. Three cases were associated with overdoses of foscarnet sodium (see OVERDOSAGE section). In five controlled U.S. clinical trials the most frequently reported adverse events in patients with AIDS and CMV retinitis are shown in Table 5. These figures were calculated without reference to drug relationship or severity. TABLE 5 \\342\\210\\222 Adverse Events Reported in Five Controlled US Clinical Trials n = 189 n = 189 Fever 65% Abnormal Renal Function 27% Nausea 47% Vomiting 26% Anemia 33% Headache 26% Diarrhea 30% Seizures 10% From the same controlled studies, adverse events categorized by investigator as "severe" are shown in Table 6. Although death was specifically attributed to foscarnet sodium injection in only one case, other complications of foscarnet sodium (i.e., renal impairment, electrolyte abnormalities, and seizures) may have contributed to patient deaths (see WARNINGS section). TABLE 6 \\342\\210\\222 Severe Adverse Events n = 189 Death 14% Abnormal Renal Function 14% Marrow Suppression 10% Anemia 9% Seizures 7% From the five initial U.S. controlled trials of foscarnet sodium injection, the following list of adverse events has been compiled regardless of causal relationship to foscarnet sodium. Evaluation of these reports was difficult because of the diverse manifestations of the underlying disease and because most patients received numerous concomitant medications. Incidence 5% or Greater Body as a Whole: fever, fatigue, rigors, asthenia, malaise, pain, infection, sepsis, death Central and Peripheral Nervous System: headache, paresthesia, dizziness, involuntary muscle contractions, hypoesthesia, neuropathy, seizures including grand mal seizures (see WARNINGS ) Gastrointestinal System: anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain Hematologic: anemia, granulocytopenia, leukopenia (see PRECAUTIONS ) Metabolic and Nutritional: mineral and electrolyte imbalances (see WARNINGS ) including hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, hyperphosphatemia Psychiatric: depression, confusion, anxiety Respiratory System: coughing, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: rash, increased sweating Urinary: alterations in renal function including increased serum creatinine, decreased creatinine clearance, and abnormal renal function (see WARNINGS ) Special Senses: vision abnormalities Incidence between 1% and 5% Application Site: injection site pain, injection site inflammation Body as a Whole: back pain, chest pain, edema, influenza-like symptoms, bacterial infections, moniliasis, fungal infections, abscess Cardiovascular: hypertension, palpitations, ECG abnormalities including sinus tachycardia, first degree AV block and non-specific ST-T segment changes, hypotension, flushing, cerebrovascular disorder (see WARNINGS ) Central and Peripheral Nervous System: tremor, ataxia, dementia, stupor, generalized spasms, sensory disturbances, meningitis, aphasia, abnormal coordination, leg cramps, EEG abnormalities (see WARNINGS ) Gastrointestinal: constipation, dysphagia, dyspepsia, rectal hemorrhage, dry mouth, melena, flatulence, ulcerative stomatitis, pancreatitis Hematologic: thrombocytopenia, platelet abnormalities, thrombosis, white blood cell abnormalities, lymphadenopathy Liver and Biliary: abnormal A-G ratio, abnormal hepatic function, increased SGPT, increased SGOT Metabolic and Nutritional: hyponatremia, decreased weight, increased alkaline phosphatase, increased LDH, increased BUN, acidosis, cachexia, thirst, hypocalcemia (see WARNINGS ) Musculo-Skeletal: arthralgia, myalgia Neoplasms: lymphoma-like disorder, sarcoma Psychiatric: insomnia, somnolence, nervousness, amnesia, agitation, aggressive reaction, hallucination Respiratory System: pneumonia, sinusitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, respiratory disorders, respiratory insufficiency, pulmonary infiltration, stridor, pneumothorax, hemoptysis, bronchospasm Skin and Appendages: pruritus, skin ulceration, seborrhea, erythematous rash, maculo-papular rash, skin discoloration Special Senses: taste perversions, eye abnormalities, eye pain, conjunctivitis Urinary System: albuminuria, dysuria, polyuria, urethral disorder, urinary retention, urinary tract infections, acute renal failure, nocturia, facial edema Selected adverse events occurring at a rate of less than 1% in the five initial U.S. controlled clinical trials of foscarnet sodium include: syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, pancytopenia, hematuria, dehydration, hypoproteinemia, increases in amylase and creatinine phosphokinase, cardiac arrest, coma, and other cardiovascular and neurologic complications. Selected adverse event data from the Foscarnet vs. Ganciclovir CMV Retinitis Trial (FGCRT), performed by the Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA) Research Group, are shown in Table 7 (see CLINICAL TRIALS section). TABLE 7 \\342\\210\\222 FGCRT: Selected Adverse Events* * Values for the treatment groups refer only to patients who completed at least one follow-up visit \\342\\210\\222 i.e., 113 to 119 patients in the ganciclovir group and 93 to 100 in the foscarnet group. "Events" denotes all events observed and "patients" the number of patients with one or more of the indicated events.  Per person-year at risk \\342\\200\\241 Final frozen SOCA I database dated October 1991. Event GANCICLOVIR FOSCARNET No. of Events No. of Patients Rates No. of Events No. of Patients Rates Absolute neutrophil count decreasing to <0.50 x 109per liter 63 41 1.30 31 17 0.72 Serum creatinine increasing to >260 \\302\\265mol per liter (>2.9 mg/dL) 6 4 0.12 13 9 0.30 Seizure\\342\\200\\241 21 13 0.37 19 13 0.37 Catheterization- related infection 49 27 1.26 51 28 1.46 Hospitalization 209 91 4.74 202 75 5.03 Selected adverse events from ACTG Study 228 (CRRT) comparing combination therapy with foscarnet sodium injection or ganciclovir monotherapy are shown in Table 8. The most common reason for a treatment change in patients assigned to either foscarnet sodium injection or ganciclovir was retinitis progression. The most frequent reason for a treatment change in the combination treatment group was toxicity. TABLE 8 CRRT: Selected Adverse Events * Pts. = patients with event;  Rate = events/person/year;\\342\\200\\241 ANC = absolute neutrophil count Foscarnet Sodium N=88 Ganciclovir N=93 Combination N=93 No. Events No. Pts.* Rate No. Events No. Pts.* Rate No. Events No. Pts.* Rate Anemia (Hgb <70 g/L) 11 7 0.20 9 7 0.14 19 15 0.33 Neutropenia\\342\\200\\241 ANC <0.75 x 109 cells/L 86 32 1.53 95 41 1.51 107 51 1.91 ANC <0.50 x 109 cells/L 50 25 0.91 49 28 0.80 50 28 0.85 Thrombocytopenia Platelets <50 x 109/L 28 14 0.50 19 8 0.43 40 15 0.56 Platelets <20 x 109/L 1 1 0.01 6 2 0.05 7 6 0.18 Nephrotoxicity Creatinine >260 \\302\\265mol/L (>2.9 mg/dL) 9 7 0.15 10 7 0.17 11 10 0.20 Seizures 6 6 0.17 7 6 0.15 10 5 0.18 Hospitalizations 86 53 1.86 111 59 2.36 118 64 2.36 Adverse events that have been reported in post-marketing surveillance include: ventricular arrhythmia, prolongation of QT interval, gamma GT increased, diabetes insipidus (usually nephrogenic), renal calculus, and muscle disorders including myopathy, myositis, muscle weakness and rare cases of rhabdomyolysis. Cases of vesiculobullous eruptions including erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome have been reported. In most cases, patients were taking other medications that have been associated with toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens-Johnson Syndrome."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS THE MAJOR TOXICITY OF FOSCAVIR IS RENAL IMPAIRMENT (see WARNINGS section). Approximately 33% of 189 patients with AIDS and CMV retinitis who received FOSCAVIR (60 mg/kg TID), without adequate hydration, developed significant impairment of renal function (serum creatinine >= 2.0 mg/dL). The incidence of renal impairment in subsequent clinical trials in which 1000 mL of normal saline or 5% dextrose solution was given with each infusion of FOSCAVIR was 12% (34/280). FOSCAVIR has been associated with changes in serum electrolytes including hypocalcemia (15-30%), hypophosphatemia (8-26%) and hyperphosphatemia (6%), hypomagnesemia (15-30%), and hypokalemia (16-48%) (see WARNINGS section). The higher percentages were derived from those patients receiving hydration. FOSCAVIR treatment was associated with seizures in 18/189 (10%) AIDS patients in the initial five controlled studies (see WARNINGS section). Risk factors associated with seizures included impaired baseline renal function, low total serum calcium, and underlying CNS conditions predisposing the patient to seizures. The rate of seizures did not increase with duration of treatment. Three cases were associated with overdoses of FOSCAVIR (see OVERDOSAGE section). In five controlled U.S. clinical trials the most frequently reported adverse events in patients with AIDS and CMV retinitis are shown in Table 9. These figures were calculated without reference to drug relationship or severity. TABLE 9 Adverse Events Reported in Five Controlled US Clinical Trials n = 189 n = 189 Fever 65% Abnormal Renal Function 27% Nausea 47% Vomiting 26% Anemia 33% Headache 26% Diarrhea 30% Seizures 10% From the same controlled studies, adverse events categorized by investigator as "severe" are shown in Table 10. Although death was specifically attributed to FOSCAVIR in only one case, other complications of FOSCAVIR (i.e., renal impairment, electrolyte abnormalities, and seizures) may have contributed to patient deaths (see WARNINGS section). TABLE 10 Severe Adverse Events n = 189 Death 14% Abnormal Renal Function 14% Marrow Suppression 10% Anemia 9% Seizures 7% From the five initial U.S. controlled trials of FOSCAVIR, the following list of adverse events has been compiled regardless of causal relationship to FOSCAVIR. Evaluation of these reports was difficult because of the diverse manifestations of the underlying disease and because most patients received numerous concomitant medications. Incidence of 5% or Greater Body as a Whole: fever, fatigue, rigors, asthenia, malaise, pain, infection, sepsis, death Central and Peripheral Nervous System: headache, paresthesia, dizziness, involuntary muscle contractions, hypoesthesia, neuropathy, seizures including grand mal seizures (see WARNINGS) Gastrointestinal System: anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain Hematologic: anemia, granulocytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia (see PRECAUTIONS) Metabolic and Nutritional: mineral and electrolyte imbalances (see WARNINGS) including hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, hyperphosphatemia Psychiatric: depression, confusion, anxiety Respiratory System: coughing, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: rash, increased sweating Urinary: alterations in renal function including increased serum creatinine, decreased creatinine clearance, and abnormal renal function (see WARNINGS) Special Senses: vision abnormalities Incidence between 1% and 5% Application Site: injection site pain, injection site inflammation Body as a Whole: back pain, chest pain, edema, influenza-like symptoms, bacterial infections, moniliasis, fungal infections, abscess Cardiovascular: hypertension, palpitations, ECG abnormalities including sinus tachycardia, first degree AV block and non-specific ST-T segment changes, hypotension, flushing, cerebrovascular disorder (see WARNINGS) Central and Peripheral Nervous System: tremor, ataxia, dementia, stupor, generalized spasms, sensory disturbances, meningitis, aphasia, abnormal coordination, leg cramps, EEG abnormalities (see WARNINGS) Gastrointestinal: constipation, dysphagia, dyspepsia, rectal hemorrhage, dry mouth, melena, flatulence, ulcerative stomatitis, pancreatitis Hematologic: thrombocytopenia, platelet abnormalities, thrombosis, white blood cell abnormalities, lymphadenopathy Liver and Biliary: abnormal A-G ratio, abnormal hepatic function, increased SGPT, increased SGOT Metabolic and Nutritional: hyponatremia, decreased weight, increased alkaline phosphatase, increased LDH, increased BUN, acidosis, cachexia, thirst, hypercalcemia (see WARNINGS) Musculo-Skeletal: arthralgia, myalgia Neoplasms: lymphoma-like disorder, sarcoma Psychiatric: insomnia, somnolence, nervousness, amnesia, agitation, aggressive reaction, hallucination Respiratory System: pneumonia, sinusitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, respiratory disorders, respiratory insufficiency, pulmonary infiltration, stridor, pneumothorax, hemoptysis, bronchospasm Skin and Appendages: pruritus, skin ulceration, seborrhea, erythematous rash, maculo-papular rash, skin discoloration Special Senses: taste perversions, eye abnormalities, eye pain, conjunctivitis Urinary System: albuminuria, dysuria, polyuria, urethral disorder, urinary retention, urinary tract infections, acute renal failure, nocturia, facial edema Selected adverse events occurring at a rate of less than 1% in the five initial U.S. controlled clinical trials of FOSCAVIR include: syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, pancytopenia, hematuria, dehydration, hypoproteinemia, increases in amylase and creatinine phosphokinase, cardiac arrest, coma, and other cardiovascular and neurologic complications. Selected adverse event data from the Foscarnet vs. Ganciclovir CMV Retinitis Trial (FGCRT), performed by the Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS (SOCA) Research Group, are shown in Table 11 (see CLINICAL TRIALS section). TABLE 11 FGRCT: Selected Adverse Events* * Values for the treatment groups refer only to patients who completed at least one follow-up visit - i.e., 133 to 119 patients in the ganciclovir group and 93 to 100 in the foscarnet group. "Events" denotes all events observed and "patients" the number of patients with one or more of the indicated events. Per person-year at risk \\342\\200\\241Final frozen SOCA I database dated October 1991 EVENT GANCICLOVIR FOSCARNET No. of Events No. of Patients Rates No. of Events No. of Patients Rates Absolute neutrophil count decreasing to <0.50 x 109 per liter 63 41 1.30 31 17 0.72 Serum creatinine increasing to >260 \\316\\274mol per liter (>2.9 mg/dL) 6 4 0.12 13 9 0.30 Seizure \\342\\200\\241 21 13 0.37 19 13 0.37 Catheterization-related infection 49 27 1.26 51 28 1.46 Hospitalization 209 91 4.74 202 75 5.03 Selected adverse events from ACTG Study 228 (CRRT) comparing combination therapy with FOSCAVIR or ganciclovir monotherapy are shown in Table 12. The most common reason for a treatment change in patients assigned to either FOSCAVIR or ganciclovir was retinitis progression. The most frequent reason for a treatment change in the combination treatment group was toxicity. TABLE 12 CRRT: Selected Adverse Events * Pts. = patients with event; Rate = events/person/year; \\342\\200\\241ANC = absolute neutrophil count Foscavir N=88 Ganciclovir N=93 Combination N=93 No. Events No. Pts.* Rate No. Events No. Pts.* Rate No. Events No. Pts.* Rate Anemia (Hgb <70g/L) 11 7 0.20 9 7 0.14 19 15 0.33 Neutropenia\\342\\200\\241 ANC <0.75 x 109 cells/L ANC <0.50 x 109 cells/L 86 50 32 25 1.53 0.91 95 49 41 28 1.51 0.80 107 50 51 28 1.91 0.85 Thrombocytopenia Platelets <50 x 109/L Platelets <20 x 109/L 28 1 14 1 0.50 0.01 19 6 8 2 0.43 0.05 40 7 15 6 0.56 0.18 Nephrotoxicity Creatinine >260 \\316\\274mol/L (>2.9 mg/dL) 9 7 0.15 10 7 0.17 11 10 0.20 Seizures 6 6 0.17 7 6 0.15 10 5 0.18 Hospitalizations 86 53 1.86 111 59 2.36 118 64 2.36 Adverse events that have been reported in post-marketing surveillance include: status epilepticus, ventricular arrhythmia, prolongation of QT interval, Torsade de pointes, gamma GT increased, diabetes insipidus (usually nephrogenic), renal calculus, Fanconi syndrome acquired, renal tubular acidosis, renal tubular necrosis, crystal-induced nephropathy, hypernatremia, esophageal ulceration and muscle disorders including myopathy, myositis, muscle weakness and rare cases of rhabdomyolysis. Cases of vesiculobullous eruptions including erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome have been reported. In most cases, patients were taking other medications that have been associated with toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens-Johnson Syndrome."$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs and of ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine."$$
"Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytoxic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.",$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution container permits. (See PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts, and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Additives may be incompatible; norepinephrine and dobutamine are incompatible with sodium bicarbonate solution. The addition of sodium bicarbonate to parenteral solutions containing calcium should be avoided, except where compatibility has been previously established. Precipitation or haze may result from sodium bicarbonate-calcium admixtures. NOTE: Do not sue the injection if it contains precipitate. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible; norepinephrine and dobutamine are incompatible with sodium bicarbonate solution. The addition of sodium bicarbonate to parenteral solutions containing calcium should be avoided, except where compatibility has been previously established. Precipitation or haze may result from sodium bicarbonate-calcium admixtures. NOTE: Do not use the injection if it contains precipitate. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible; norepinephrine and dobutamine are incompatible with sodium bicarbonate solution. The addition of sodium bicarbonate to parenteral solutions containing calcium should be avoided, except where compatibility has been previously established. Precipitation or haze may result from sodium bicarbonate/calcium admixtures. NOTE : Do not use the injection if it contains precipitate. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentration, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of oral corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections, Vaccinations ).",$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin-B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (eg, barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section).",$$
"Drug Interactions: A possible drug interaction of foscarnet sodium and intravenous pentamidine has been described. Concomitant treatment of four patients in the United Kingdom with foscarnet sodium and intravenous pentamidine may have caused hypocalcemia; one patient died with severe hypocalcemia. Toxicity associated with concomitant use of aerosolized pentamidine has not been reported. Since foscarnet decreases serum concentrations of ionized calcium, concurrent treatment with other drugs known to influence serum calcium concentrations should be used with particular caution. Fatalities have been reported in post-marketing surveillance during concomitant therapy with foscarnet and pentamidine. Because of foscarnet's tendency to cause renal impairment, the use of foscarnet sodium should be avoided in combination with potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as aminoglycosides, amphotericin B and intravenous pentamidine (see above) unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks to the patient. Abnormal renal function has been observed in clinical practice during the use of foscarnet sodium and ritonavir, or foscarnet sodium, ritonavir, and saquinavir. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Ganciclovir: The pharmacokinetics of foscarnet and ganciclovir were not altered in 13 patients receiving either concomitant therapy or daily alternating therapy for maintenance of CMV disease."$$
"Drug Interactions A possible drug interaction of FOSCAVIR and intravenous pentamidine has been described. Concomitant treatment of four patients in the United Kingdom with FOSCAVIR and intravenous pentamidine may have caused hypocalcemia; one patient died with severe hypocalcemia. Toxicity associated with concomitant use of aerosolized pentamidine has not been reported. Because FOSCAVIR can reduce serum levels of ionized calcium, extreme caution is advised when used concurrently with other drugs known to influence serum calcium levels (e.g., intravenous pentamidine). Renal impairment and symptomatic hypocalcemia have been observed during concurrent treatment with FOSCAVIR and intravenous pentamidine. Because of foscarnet's tendency to cause renal impairment, the use of FOSCAVIR should be avoided in combination with potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cyclosporine, acyclovir, methotrexate, tacrolimus and intravenous pentamidine (see above) unless the potential benefits outweigh the risks to the patient. When diuretics are indicated, thiazides are recommended over loop diuretics because the latter inhibit renal tubular secretion, and may impair elimination of FOSCAVIR, potentially leading to toxicity. Abnormal renal function has been observed in clinical practice during the use of FOSCAVIR and ritonavir, or FOSCAVIR, ritonavir, and saquinavir. (See DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION.)"$$
"Drug Interactions A single intravenous dose and oral dose of probenecid (500 mg each) followed by two oral doses of probenecid 500 mg at approximately hourly intervals administered to three healthy male subjects receiving a continuous infusion of cefotaxime increased the steady-state plasma concentration of cefotaxime by approximately 80%. In another study, administration of oral probenecid 500 mg every 6 hours to six healthy male subjects with cefotaxime 1 gram infused over 5 minutes decreased the total clearance of cefotaxime by approximately 50%. Additionally, no disulfiram-like reactions were reported in a study conducted in 22 healthy volunteers administered CLAFORAN and ethanol.",$$
"Drug Interactions Because of its antianabolic activity, concurrent administration of tetracycline may reduce the potential anabolic effects of amino acids infused with dextrose as part of a parenteral feeding regimen. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Caution is advised when administering Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone - see CONTRAINDICATIONS Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine) and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP should be avoided in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with such medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Caution is advised when administering Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP to patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, as these can increase the risk of hypercalcemia."$$
"Drug interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatability of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatability of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatibility of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"Drug Interactions If clinically relevant amounts of solution have been absorbed, potential interactions with other agents must be considered, such as: Patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids and carbenoxolone, may have an increased risk of sodium and fluid retention. Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Lactated Ringer's Irrigation may interfere with the elimination of drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent: -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates, barbiturates, and lithium may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, and fenfluramine (phenfluramine) hydrochloride may be decreased. The risk of hyperkalemia is increased in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium-sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triameterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with such medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Absorption of calcium-containing solutions may increase the effects of digitalis and lead to serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmia. In patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D, the risk of hypercalcemia is increased."$$
"Drug Interactions: In common with other antibiotics, cefuroxime may affect the gut flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined estrogen/progesterone oral contraceptives."$$
"Drug Interactions Increased nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of cephalosporins and aminoglycoside antibiotics."$$
"Drug Interactions No clinical drug interaction studies were performed. As with other dialysis solutions, blood concentrations of dialyzable drugs may be reduced by dialysis. Dosage adjustment of concomitant medications may be necessary. In patients using cardiac glycosides (digoxin and others), plasma levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium must be carefully monitored (see Warnings)."$$
"Drug Interactions Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of ampicillin and sulbactam. Concurrent use of probenecid with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of ampicillin and sulbactam. The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. There are no data with ampicillin and sulbactam for injection and allopurinol administered concurrently. Ampicillin and sulbactam for injection and aminoglycosides should not be reconstituted together due to the in vitro inactivation of aminoglycosides by the ampicillin component of ampicillin and sulbactam for injection."$$
"Drug Interactions Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of ampicillin and sulbactam. Concurrent use of probenecid with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of ampicillin and sulbactam. The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. There are no data with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection and allopurinol administered concurrently. Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection and aminoglycosides should not be reconstituted together due to the in vitro inactivation of aminoglycosides by the ampicillin component of Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection."$$
"Drug Interactions: Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of ampicillin and sulbactam. Concurrent use of probenecid with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection USP may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of ampicillin and sulbactam. The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. There are no data with Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection and allopurinol administered concurrently. Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection USP and aminoglycosides should not be reconstituted together due to the in vitro inactivation of aminoglycosides by the ampicillin component of Ampicillin and Sulbactam for Injection USP"$$
"Drug Interactions Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of ampicillin and sulbactam. Concurrent use of probenecid with ampicillin and sulbactam may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of ampicillin and sulbactam. The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. There are no data with ampicillin and sulbactam and allopurinol administered concurrently. Ampicillin and sulbactam and aminoglycosides should not be reconstituted together due to the in vitro inactivation of aminoglycosides by the ampicillin component of ampicillin and sulbactam."$$
"Drug Interactions Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of ampicillin and sulbactam. Concurrent use of probenecid with Ampicillin and Sulbactam may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of ampicillin and sulbactam. The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. There are no data with Ampicillin and Sulbactam and allopurinol administered concurrently. Ampicillin and Sulbactam and aminoglycosides should not be reconstituted together due to the in vitro inactivation of aminoglycosides by the ampicillin component of Ampicillin and Sulbactam."$$
"Drug Interactions Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of ampicillin and sulbactam. Concurrent use of probenecid with UNASYN may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of ampicillin and sulbactam. The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. There are no data with UNASYN and allopurinol administered concurrently. UNASYN and aminoglycosides should not be reconstituted together due to the in vitro inactivation of aminoglycosides by the ampicillin component of UNASYN."$$
"Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques. Mix thoroughly. Do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Tetracycline, a bacteriostatic antibiotic, may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. Nafcillin in high dosage regimens, i.e., 2 grams every 4 hours, has been reported to decrease the effects of warfarin. When nafcillin and warfarin are used concomitantly, the prothrombin time should be closely monitored and the dose of warfarin adjusted as necessary. This effect may persist for up to 30 days after nafcillin has been discontinued. Nafcillin when administered concomitantly with cyclosporine has been reported to result in subtherapeutic cyclosporine levels. The nafcillin-cyclosporine interaction was documented in a patient during two separate courses of therapy. When cyclosporine and nafcillin are used concomitantly in organ transplant patients, the cyclosporine levels should be monitored."$$
"Drug Interactions Tetracycline, a bacteriostatic antibiotic, may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin, and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. Nafcillin in high dosage regimens, i.e., 2 grams every 4 hours, has been reported to decrease the effects of warfarin. When nafcillin and warfarin are used concomitantly, the prothrombin time should be closely monitored and the dose of warfarin adjusted as necessary. This effect may persist for up to 30 days after nafcillin has been discontinued. Nafcillin when administered concomitantly with cyclosporine has been reported to result in subtherapeutic cyclosporine levels. The nafcillin-cyclosporine interaction was documented in a patient during two separate courses of therapy. When cyclosporine and nafcillin are used concomitantly in organ transplant patients, the cyclosporine levels should be monitored."$$
"Drug Interactions Tetracycline, a bacteriostatic antibiotic, may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. Oxacillin blood levels may be increased and prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Probenecid decreases the apparent volume of distribution and slows the rate of excretion by competitively inhibiting renal tubular secretion of penicillins. Oxacillin-probenecid therapy should be limited to those infections where very high serum levels of oxacillin are necessary."$$
"Drug Interactions Tetracycline, a bacteriostatic antibiotic, may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided. Oxacillin blood levels may be prolonged by concurrent administration of probenecid which blocks the renal tubular secretion of penicillins."$$
"Drug Interactions The concurrent administration of allopurinol and ampicillin increases substantially the incidence of skin rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving ampicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of ampicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients."$$
"Interactions Drug Interactions Increased nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of cephalosporins and aminoglycoside antibiotics. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions As with cephalothin, high concentrations of cefoxitin (> 100 mcg/mL) may interfere with measurement of serum and urine creatinine levels by the Jaffe reaction, and produce false increases of modest degree in the levels of creatinine reported. Serum samples from patients treated with cefoxitin should not be analyzed for creatinine if withdrawn within 2 hours of drug administration. High concentrations of cefoxitin in the urine may interfere with measurement of urinary 17-hydroxy-corticosteroids by the Porter-Silber reaction, and produce false increases of modest degree in the levels reported. A false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur. This has been observed with CLINITEST reagent tablets.",$$
"IV. Warnings and Cautions Contraindications: None known Precautions for use: - Solutions are NOT INTENDED FOR DIRECT INFUSION. - Do not use if particulate matter is present or if the solution is cloudy Note: Some opacity of the plastic container due to moisture absorbance by the PVC during the sterilization process may be observed. This is normal and does not affect the quality or the safety of the product. This white, hazy appearance will diminish gradually over time. This advice only applies to the plastic container. Do not use if the solution itself is cloudy or contains particulate matter. -Do not use if the container is damaged, leaking or if there is any visible sign of deterioration. Note: The over wrap serves as a moisture barrier. Upon removing the solution bag, small droplets of condensation may be present in the packaging. This is considered normal. After removing the over wrap gently squeeze the inner bag which protects the sterility of the solution. Discard if any leaks are observed or if an excessive amount of solution is noted within the over wrap. - Do not reuse solution. Discard any unused or partially used solutions. - Protect from sharp objects. - Verify that solutions have been appropriately connected to avoid leaks. - The set should be loaded and primed for use within 8 hours of the start of the collection. - Carry out the apheresis procedure in accordance with the detailed instructions of the manufacturer of the apheresis device."$$
"Warnings and Precautions For Professional Office Use Only. This product is not intended for home or unsupervised consumer use. Do not swallow. Keep out of reach of children. Not recommended for children under the age of 6. Limited to topical use in the mouth only."$$
