"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Anaphylactoid and hypersensitivity reactions (5.1, 6) Avoid use in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction. (5.2) Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of renal injury. (5.2) Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of renal replacement therapy has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products. (5.2) Monitor the coagulation status of patients undergoing open heart surgery in association with cardiopulmonary bypass as excess bleeding has been reported with HES solutions in this population. Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of coagulopathy. (5.3) Avoid fluid overload; adjust dosage in patients with cardiac or renal dysfunction (5.4) In severe dehydration, a crystalloid solution should be given first (5.4) Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products, including 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection. (5.5) Monitor kidney function, fluid balance and serum electrolytes (5.5) Elevated serum amylase values may occur and interfere with the diagnosis of pancreatitis (5.5) High dosages may cause dilution of blood components (5.5) 5.1 Anaphylactoid Reactions Anaphylactoid reactions (mild influenza-like symptoms, bradycardia, tachycardia, bronchospasm, non-cardiac pulmonary edema) have been reported with solutions containing hydroxyethyl starch. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, administration of the drug should be discontinued immediately and the appropriate treatment and supportive measures should be undertaken until symptoms have resolved. [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] 5.2 Renal Dysfunction Avoid use in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction. Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of renal injury. Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of RRT has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products. 5.3 Coagulopathy Monitor the coagulation status of patients undergoing open heart surgery in association with cardiopulmonary bypass as excess bleeding has been reported with HES solutions in this population. Discontinue use of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at the first sign of coagulopathy. 5.4 Fluid Equilibrium Avoid fluid overload; adjust dosage in patients with cardiac or renal dysfunction. Fluid status and rate of infusion should be assessed regularly during treatment, especially in patients with cardiac insufficiency or severe kidney dysfunction. In cases of severe dehydration, a crystalloid solution should be given first. Generally, sufficient fluid should be administered in order to avoid dehydration. 5.5 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations, kidney function, acid-base balance, and coagulation parameters during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the patient's condition warrants such evaluation. Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products, including 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection. 5.6 Interference with Laboratory Tests Elevated serum amylase levels may be observed temporarily following administration of the product and can interfere with the diagnosis of pancreatitis. At high dosages the dilutional effects may result in decreased levels of coagulation factors and other plasma proteins and a decrease in hematocrit."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid use in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction (5.1) Discontinue use of HESPAN(R) at the first sign of renal injury (5.1) Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of RRT has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products, including HESPAN(R) (5.1) HESPAN(R) is not recommended for use as a cardiac bypass pump prime, while the patient is on cardiopulmonary bypass, or in the immediate period after the pump has been discontinued because of the risk of increasing coagulation abnormalities and bleeding in patients whose coagulation status is already impaired. Discontinue use of HESPAN(R) at first sign of coagulopathy (5.2) Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products, including HESPAN(R) (5.2) 5.1 Renal Dysfunction Avoid use in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction Discontinue use of HESPAN(R) at the first sign of renal injury Continue to monitor renal function in hospitalized patients for at least 90 days as use of RRT has been reported up to 90 days after administration of HES products, including HESPAN(R) 5.2 Coagulopathy HESPAN(R) is not recommended for use as a cardiac bypass pump prime, while the patient is on cardiopulmonary bypass, or in the immediate period after the pump has been discontinued because of the risk of increasing coagulation abnormalities and bleeding in patients whose coagulation status is already impaired. Discontinue use of HESPAN(R) at first sign of coagulopathy1-2 HESPAN(R) has not been adequately evaluated to establish its safety in uses over extended periods other than leukapheresis. HESPAN(R) has been associated with coagulation abnormalities in conjunction with an acquired, reversible von Willebrand's-like syndrome and/or Factor Vlll deficiency when used over a period of days. Replacement therapy should be considered if a severe Factor Vlll deficiency is identified. If a coagulopathy develops, it may take several days to resolve. Certain conditions may affect the safe use of HESPAN(R) on a chronic basis. For example, in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage where HESPAN(R) is used repeatedly over a period of days for the prevention of cerebral vasospasm, significant clinical bleeding may occur. Intracranial bleeding resulting in death has been reported.3 Slight declines in platelet counts and hemoglobin levels have been observed in donors undergoing repeated leukapheresis procedures using HESPAN(R) due to the volume expanding effects of hetastarch and to the collection of platelets and erythrocytes. Hemoglobin levels usually return to normal within 24 hours. Hemodilution by HESPAN(R) may also result in 24 hour declines of total protein, albumin, calcium, and fibrinogen levels. Regular and frequent clinical evaluation and complete blood counts (CBC) are necessary for proper monitoring of HESPAN(R) use during leukapheresis. If the frequency of leukapheresis is to exceed the guidelines for whole blood donation, you may wish to consider the following additional tests: total leukocyte and platelet counts, leukocyte differential count, hemoglobin and hematocrit, prothrombin time (PT), and partial thromboplastin time (PTT). 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Life threatening anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions including death have been rarely reported with HESPAN(R). Patients may develop hypersensitivity reaction to corn starch from which this product is made. If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs, administration of the drug should be discontinued immediately and the appropriate treatment and supportive measures should be undertaken until symptoms have resolved. 5.4 Circulatory Overload HESPAN(R) has not been adequately evaluated to establish its safety in situations other than treatment of hypovolemia in elective surgery. Large volumes of HESPAN(R) may transiently alter the coagulation mechanism due to hemodilution and a direct inhibitory action on Factor Vlll. Administration of volumes of HESPAN(R) that are greater than 25% of the blood volume in less than 24 hours may cause significant hemodilution reflected by lower hematocrit and plasma protein values. Administration of packed red cells, platelets, or fresh frozen plasma should be considered if clinically indicated. When using HESPAN(R) for plasma volume expansion, caution should be taken to avoid excessive hemodilution and circulatory overload especially in those patients at risk for developing congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema. HESPAN(R) is primarily excreted via the kidneys so caution should be exercised in patients who have impaired renal function. Although the risk of circulatory overload is largely dependent on the clinical circumstances, use of doses higher than 20 mL/kg/24h will increase the risk significantly. Increased risk of coagulation abnormalities and bleeding is also associated with higher doses. Monitor patients' vital signs and hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count, prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time. 5.5 Liver Function Test Monitor liver function in patients receiving HES products, including HESPAN(R) 5.6 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Bilirubin Levels Indirect bilirubin levels of 8.3 mg/L (normal 0.0-7.0 mg/L) have been reported in 2 out of 20 normal subjects who received multiple infusions of HESPAN(R) (6% hetastarch in 0.9% sodium chloride injection). Total bilirubin was within normal limits at all times; indirect bilirubin returned to normal by 96 hours following the final infusion. The significance, if any, of these elevations is not known; however, caution should be observed before administering HESPAN(R) to patients with a history of liver disease. Serum Amylase Levels Elevated serum amylase levels may be observed temporarily following administration of HESPAN(R) although no association with pancreatitis has been demonstrated. Serum amylase levels cannot be used to assess or to evaluate for pancreatitis for 3-5 days after administration of HESPAN(R). Elevated serum amylase levels persist for longer periods of time in patients with renal impairment. Hetastarch has not been shown to increase serum lipase. Hemodialysis HESPAN(R) is not eliminated by hemodialysis. The utility of other extracorporeal elimination techniques has not been evaluated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin (5.1) - Risk of Aluminum Toxicity: For at risk patients (renal failure or those with prolonged therapy), consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels (5.2) - Low Vitamin A levels: Monitor vitamin A levels (5.3) - Allergic Reactions: to thiamine may occur (5.4) - Hypervitaminosis A: Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk (5.5) - Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis: Avoid during testing for this disorder (5.6) - Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excess: Monitor blood vitamin concentrations (5.7) - False Negative Urine Glucose Tests: Due to vitamin C (5.8) 5.1 Decreased Anticoagulant Effect of Warfarin M.V.I.-Adult contains Vitamin K which may decrease the anticoagulant effect of warfarin. In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving M.V.I-Adult, prothrombin time/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if the dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.2 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-Adult(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with renal impairment. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 micrograms per kg per day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. To prevent aluminum toxicity monitor periodically aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of M.V.I.-Adult. 5.3 Risk of Low Vitamin A Levels Vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations after administration of M.V.I.-Adult(TM). Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-Adult(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylaxis following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylaxis reactions associated with M.V.I. Adult(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-Adult(TM), should be undertaken with caution [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7)]. Blood levels of Vitamin A should be monitored periodically. 5.6 Interference with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia M.V.I-Adult contains folic acid and cyanocobalamin which can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in patients with megaloblastic anemia. Avoid the use of M.V.I.-Adult(TM) in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. 5.7 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-Adult(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-Adult(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I.-Adult(TM) contains Vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. ( 5.4 ) Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time due to risk of abnormal bleeding. ( 5.5 ) 5.1 Clarithromycin use in pregnant women CLARITHROMYCIN SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PREGNANT WOMEN EXCEPT IN CLINICAL CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE NO ALTERNATIVE THERAPY IS APPROPRIATE. If pregnancy occurs while taking clarithromycin, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. (See WARNINGS in prescribing information for clarithromycin.) 5.2 Anaphylactic Reactions associated with antibiotic use Amoxicillin: Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy. These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and/or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. There have been well-documented reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity reactions that have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions when treated with a cephalosporin. Before initiating therapy with any penicillin, careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillin, cephalosporin, and other allergens. If an allergic reaction occurs, amoxicillin should be discontinued and the appropriate therapy instituted. (See WARNINGS in prescribing information for amoxicillin.) SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE. OXYGEN, INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS, AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT, INCLUDING INTUBATION, SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED. 5.3 Pseudomembranous colitis associated with antibiotic use Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents, including clarithromycin and amoxicillin, and may range in severity from mild to life threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia. Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of \\\\"antibiotic-associated colitis\\\\". After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established, therapeutic measures should be initiated. Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone. In moderate to severe cases, consideration should be given to management with fluid and electrolytes, protein supplementation, and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridium difficile colitis. 5.4 Presence of Gastric malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.5 Concomitant use with warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Gastric Malignancy: Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1). Use with Warfarin: Monitor for increases in INR and prothombin time (5.2, 7). Acute Interstitial Nephritis: Observed in patients taking PPIs (5.3). Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin (5.4). Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea: PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of (5.5). Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.6). Hypomagnesemia: Reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.7). Interaction with Methotrexate: Concomitant use with PPIs may elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to toxicity. With high dose methotrexate administration, consider a temporary withdrawal of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets (5.8, 7). 5.1 Presence of G astric M alignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with ACIPHEX does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Interaction with W arfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including ACIPHEX. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue ACIPHEX if acute interstitial nephritis develops [ see Contraindications (4) ] . 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo- or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed in patients treated with ACIPHEX. 5. 5 Clostridium difficile A ssociated D iarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like ACIPHEX may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with ACIPHEX, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of the corresponding prescribing information. 5. 6 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [ see Dosage and Administration (2) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5. 7 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5. 8 Interaction with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [ see Drug Interactions (7) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Gastric Malignancy: Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1). - Use with Warfarin: Monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2, 7). - Acute Interstitial Nephritis: Observed in patients taking PPIs (5.3). - Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin (5.4). - Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea: PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of (5.5). - Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.6). - Hypomagnesemia: Reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.7). - Interaction with Methotrexate: Concomitant use with PPIs may elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to toxicity. With high dose methotrexate administration, consider a temporary withdrawal of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets (5.8, 7). 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Interaction With Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including rabeprazole. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue rabeprazole if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo- or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed in patients treated with rabeprazole. 5.5 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like rabeprazole may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with rabeprazole, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of the corresponding prescribing information. 5.6 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.7 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.8 Interaction With Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypocalcemia can worsen. Correct hypocalcemia prior to use. Adequately supplement patients with calcium and vitamin D (5.1) Anaphylaxis, including fatal events, has been reported. (5.2) Renal Toxicity may be greater in patients with underlying renal impairment. Do not administer BONIVA injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Monitor serum creatinine prior to each dose. (5.3) Tissue Damage with Inappropriate Drug Administration can occur. Do not administer BONIVA Injection intra-arterially or paravenously. (5.4) Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported. (5.5) Severe Bone, Joint, and/or Muscle Pain may occur, consider discontinuing use if symptoms occur. (5.6) Atypical Femur Fractures have been reported. Patients with new thigh or groin pain should be evaluated to rule out a femoral fracture. (5.7) 5.1 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism BONIVA Injection may cause a decrease in serum calcium values. Treat hypocalcemia, hypovitaminosis D, and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting BONIVA Injection therapy. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. It is recommended that patients receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. 5.2 Anaphylactic Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated with BONIVA Injection. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when BONIVA Injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment. 5.3 Renal Impairment Treatment with intravenous bisphosphonates has been associated with renal toxicity manifested as deterioration in renal function and acute renal failure. Although no cases of acute renal failure were observed in controlled clinical trials in which intravenous BONIVA was administered as a 15- to 30-second bolus, acute renal failure has been reported postmarketing. Do not administer BONIVA Injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Obtain serum creatinine prior to each BONIVA Injection. After BONIVA Injection, assess renal function, as clinically appropriate, in patients with concomitant diseases or taking medications that have the potential for adverse effects on the kidney. BONIVA Injection should be withheld in patients with renal deterioration. 5.4 Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration BONIVA Injection must only be administered intravenously. Care must be taken not to administer BONIVA Injection intra-arterially or paravenously as this could lead to tissue damage. Do not administer BONIVA Injection by any other route of administration. The safety and efficacy of BONIVA Injection following non-intravenous routes of administration have not been established. 5.5 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported in patients treated with bisphosphonates, including BONIVA Injection. Most cases have been in cancer patients treated with intravenous bisphosphonates undergoing dental procedures. Some cases have occurred in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with either oral or intravenous bisphosphonates. A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of bisphosphonate treatment. Consider a dental examination with appropriate preventive dentistry prior to treatment with bisphosphonates in patients with a history of concomitant risk factors (e.g., cancer, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy, corticosteroids, poor oral hygiene, pre-existing dental disease or infection, anemia, coagulopathy). Concomitant administration of drugs associated with ONJ may increase the risk of developing ONJ. The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. While on treatment, patients with concomitant risk factors should avoid invasive dental procedures if possible. For patients who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy, dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental procedures, there are no data available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of ONJ. The clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 5.6 Musculoskeletal Pain Severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking BONIVA and other bisphosphonates [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug. Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping the bisphosphonate. A subset of patients had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Discontinue BONIVA if severe symptoms develop. 5.7 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported in bisphosphonate-treated patients. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Atypical femur fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs. A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) at the time of fracture. Any patient with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patients presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Hypocalcemia can worsen. Correct hypocalcemia prior to use. Adequately supplement patients with calcium and vitamin D (5.1) - Anaphylaxis, including fatal events, has been reported. (5.2) -Renal Toxicity may be greater in patients with underlying renal impairment. Do not administer ibandronate injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Monitor serum creatinine prior to each dose. (5.3) - Tissue Damage with Inappropriate Drug Administration can occur. Do not administer ibandronate injection intra-arterially or paravenously. (5.4) - Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported. (5.5) -Severe Bone, Joint, and/or Muscle Pain may occur, consider discontinuing use if symptoms occur. (5.6) - Atypical Femur Fractures have been reported. Patients with new thigh or groin pain should be evaluated to rule out a femoral fracture. (5.7) 5.1 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism Ibandronate injection may cause a decrease in serum calcium values. Treat hypocalcemia, hypovitaminosis D, and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting ibandronate injection therapy. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. It is recommended that patients receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. 5.2 Anaphylactic Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated with ibandronate injection. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when ibandronate injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment. 5.3Renal Impairment Treatment with intravenous bisphosphonates has been associated with renal toxicity manifested as deterioration in renal function and acute renal failure. Although no cases of acute renal failure were observed in controlled clinical trials in which intravenous ibandronate was administered as a 15 to 30 second bolus, acute renal failure has been reported postmarketing. Do not administer ibandronate injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Obtain serum creatinine prior to each ibandronate injection. After ibandronate injection, assess renal function, as clinically appropriate, in patients with concomitant diseases or taking medications that have the potential for adverse effects on the kidney. Ibandronate injection should be withheld in patients with renal deterioration. 5.4 Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration Ibandronate injection must only be administered intravenously. Care must be taken not to administer ibandronate injection intra-arterially or paravenously as this could lead to tissue damage. Do not administer ibandronate injection by any other route of administration. The safety and efficacy of ibandronate injection following non-intravenous routes of administration have not been established. 5.5 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported in patients treated with bisphosphonates, including ibandronate injection. Most cases have been in cancer patients treated with intravenous bisphosphonates undergoing dental procedures. Some cases have occurred in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with either oral or intravenous bisphosphonates. A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of bisphosphonate treatment. Consider a dental examination with appropriate preventive dentistry prior to treatment with bisphosphonates in patients with a history of concomitant risk factors (e.g., cancer, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy, corticosteroids, poor oral hygiene, pre-existing dental disease or infection, anemia, coagulopathy). Concomitant administration of drugs associated with ONJ may increase the risk of developing ONJ. The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. While on treatment, patients with concomitant risk factors should avoid invasive dental procedures if possible. For patients who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy, dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental procedures, there are no data available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of ONJ. The clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Musculoskeletal Pain Severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking ibandronate and other bisphosphonates [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug. Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping the bisphosphonate. A subset of patients had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Discontinue ibandronate if severe symptoms develop. 5.7 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported in bisphosphonate-treated patients. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Atypical femur fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs. A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) at the time of fracture. Any patient with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patients presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypocalcemia can worsen. Correct hypocalcemia prior to use. Adequately supplement patients with calcium and vitamin D (5.1) Anaphylaxis , including fatal events, has been reported. (5.2) Renal Toxicity may be greater in patients with underlying renal impairment. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Monitor serum creatinine prior to each dose. (5.3) Tissue Damage with Inappropriate Drug Administration can occur. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection intra-arterially or paravenously. (5.4) Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported. (5.5) Severe Bone, Joint, and/or Muscle Pain may occur, consider discontinuing use if symptoms occur. (5.6) Atypical Femur Fractures have been reported. Patients with new thigh or groin pain should be evaluated to rule out a femoral fracture. (5.7) 5.1 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism Ibandronate sodium injection may cause a decrease in serum calcium values. Treat hypocalcemia, hypovitaminosis D, and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting ibandronate sodium injection therapy. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. It is recommended that patients receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. 5.2 Anaphylactic Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when ibandronate sodium injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment. 5.3 Renal Impairment Treatment with intravenous bisphosphonates has been associated with renal toxicity manifested as deterioration in renal function and acute renal failure. Although no cases of acute renal failure were observed in controlled clinical trials in which intravenous ibandronate sodium was administered as a 15- to 30-second bolus, acute renal failure has been reported postmarketing. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Obtain serum creatinine prior to each ibandronate sodium injection. After ibandronate sodium injection, assess renal function, as clinically appropriate, in patients with concomitant diseases or taking medications that have the potential for adverse effects on the kidney. Ibandronate sodium injection should be withheld in patients with renal deterioration. 5.4 Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration Ibandronate sodium injection must only be administered intravenously. Care must be taken not to administer ibandronate sodium injection intra-arterially or paravenously as this could lead to tissue damage. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection by any other route of administration. The safety and efficacy of ibandronate sodium injection following non-intravenous routes of administration have not been established. 5.5 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported in patients treated with bisphosphonates, including ibandronate sodium injection. Most cases have been in cancer patients treated with intravenous bisphosphonates undergoing dental procedures. Some cases have occurred in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with either oral or intravenous bisphosphonates. A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of bisphosphonate treatment. Consider a dental examination with appropriate preventive dentistry prior to treatment with bisphosphonates in patients with a history of concomitant risk factors (e.g., cancer, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy, corticosteroids, poor oral hygiene, pre-existing dental disease or infection, anemia, coagulopathy). Concomitant administration of drugs associated with ONJ may increase the risk of developing ONJ. The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. While on treatment, patients with concomitant risk factors should avoid invasive dental procedures if possible. For patients who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy, dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental procedures, there are no data available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of ONJ. The clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Musculoskeletal Pain Severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking ibandronate sodium and other bisphosphonates [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug. Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping the bisphosphonate. A subset of patients had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Discontinue ibandronate sodium if severe symptoms develop. 5.7 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported in bisphosphonate-treated patients. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Atypical femur fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs. A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) at the time of fracture. Any patient with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patients presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypocalcemia can worsen. Correct hypocalcemia prior to use. Adequately supplement patients with calcium and vitamin D (5.1) Anaphylaxis, including fatal events, has been reported. (5.2) Renal Toxicity may be greater in patients with underlying renal impairment. Do not administer Ibandronate Sodium Injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Monitor serum creatinine prior to each dose. (5.3) Tissue Damage with Inappropriate Drug Administration can occur. Do not administer Ibandronate Sodium Injection intra-arterially or paravenously. (5.4) Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported. (5.5) Severe Bone, Joint, and/or Muscle Pain may occur, consider discontinuing use if symptoms occur. (5.6) Atypical Femur Fractures have been reported. Patients with new thigh or groin pain should be evaluated to rule out a femoral fracture. (5.7) 5.1 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism Ibandronate sodium injection may cause a decrease in serum calcium values. Treat hypocalcemia, hypovitaminosis D, and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting ibandronate sodium injection therapy. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. It is recommended that patients receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. 5.2 Anaphylactic Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when ibandronate sodium injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment. 5.3 Renal Impairment Treatment with intravenous bisphosphonates has been associated with renal toxicity manifested as deterioration in renal function and acute renal failure. Although no cases of acute renal failure were observed in controlled clinical trials in which intravenous ibandronate sodium was administered as a 15- to 30-second bolus, acute renal failure has been reported postmarketing. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Obtain serum creatinine prior to each ibandronate sodium injection. After ibandronate sodium injection, assess renal function, as clinically appropriate, in patients with concomitant diseases or taking medications that have the potential for adverse effects on the kidney. Ibandronate sodium injection should be withheld in patients with renal deterioration. 5.4 Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration Ibandronate sodium injection must only be administered intravenously. Care must be taken not to administer ibandronate sodium injection intra-arterially or paravenously as this could lead to tissue damage. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection by any other route of administration. The safety and efficacy of ibandronate sodium injection following non-intravenous routes of administration have not been established. 5.5 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported in patients treated with bisphosphonates, including ibandronate sodium injection. Most cases have been in cancer patients treated with intravenous bisphosphonates undergoing dental procedures. Some cases have occurred in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with either oral or intravenous bisphosphonates. A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of bisphosphonate treatment. Consider a dental examination with appropriate preventive dentistry prior to treatment with bisphosphonates in patients with a history of concomitant risk factors (e.g., cancer, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy, corticosteroids, poor oral hygiene, pre-existing dental disease or infection, anemia, coagulopathy). Concomitant administration of drugs associated with ONJ may increase the risk of developing ONJ. The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. While on treatment, patients with concomitant risk factors should avoid invasive dental procedures if possible. For patients who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy, dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental procedures, there are no data available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of ONJ. The clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Musculoskeletal Pain Severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking ibandronate sodium and other bisphosphonates [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug. Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping the bisphosphonate. A subset of patients had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Discontinue ibandronate sodium if severe symptoms develop. 5.7 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported in bisphosphonate-treated patients. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Atypical femur fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs. A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) at the time of fracture. Any patient with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patients presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypocalcemia can worsen. Correct hypocalcemia prior to use. Adequately supplement patients with calcium and vitamin D (5.1) Anaphylaxis, including fatal events, has been reported. (5.2) Renal Toxicity may be greater in patients with underlying renal impairment. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Monitor serum creatinine prior to each dose. (5.3) Tissue Damage with Inappropriate Drug Administration can occur. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection intra-arterially or paravenously. (5.4) Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported. (5.5) Severe Bone, Joint, and/or Muscle Pain may occur, consider discontinuing use if symptoms occur. (5.6) Atypical Femur Fractures have been reported. Patients with new thigh or groin pain should be evaluated to rule out a femoral fracture. (5.7) 5.1 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism Ibandronate sodium injection may cause a decrease in serum calcium values. Treat hypocalcemia, hypovitaminosis D, and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting ibandronate sodium injection therapy. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. It is recommended that patients receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. 5.2 Anaphylactic Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when ibandronate sodium injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment. 5.3 Renal Impairment Treatment with intravenous bisphosphonates has been associated with renal toxicity manifested as deterioration in renal function and acute renal failure. Although no cases of acute renal failure were observed in controlled clinical trials in which intravenous ibandronate sodium was administered as a 15- to 30-second bolus, acute renal failure has been reported postmarketing. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Obtain serum creatinine prior to each ibandronate sodium injection. After ibandronate sodium injection, assess renal function, as clinically appropriate, in patients with concomitant diseases or taking medications that have the potential for adverse effects on the kidney. Ibandronate sodium injection should be withheld in patients with renal deterioration. 5.4 Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration Ibandronate sodium injection must only be administered intravenously. Care must be taken not to administer ibandronate sodium injection intra-arterially or paravenously as this could lead to tissue damage. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection by any other route of administration. The safety and efficacy of ibandronate sodium injection following non-intravenous routes of administration have not been established. 5.5 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported in patients treated with bisphosphonates, including ibandronate sodium injection. Most cases have been in cancer patients treated with intravenous bisphosphonates undergoing dental procedures. Some cases have occurred in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with either oral or intravenous bisphosphonates. A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of bisphosphonate treatment. Consider a dental examination with appropriate preventive dentistry prior to treatment with bisphosphonates in patients with a history of concomitant risk factors (e.g., cancer, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy, corticosteroids, poor oral hygiene, pre-existing dental disease or infection, anemia, coagulopathy). Concomitant administration of drugs associated with ONJ may increase the risk of developing ONJ. The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. While on treatment, patients with concomitant risk factors should avoid invasive dental procedures if possible. For patients who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy, dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental procedures, there are no data available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of ONJ. The clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Musculoskeletal Pain Severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking ibandronate sodium injection and other bisphosphonates [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug. Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping the bisphosphonate. A subset of patients had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Discontinue ibandronate sodium injection if severe symptoms develop. 5.7 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported in bisphosphonate-treated patients. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Atypical femur fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs. A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) at the time of fracture. Any patient with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patients presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Hypocalcemia can worsen. Correct hypocalcemia prior to use. Adequately supplement patients with calcium and vitamin D (5.1) Anaphylaxis, including fatal events, has been reported. (5.2) Renal Toxicity may be greater in patients with underlying renal impairment. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Monitor serum creatinine prior to each dose. (5.3) Tissue Damage with Inappropriate Drug Administration can occur. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection intra-arterially or paravenously. (5.4) Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported. (5.5) Severe Bone, Joint, and/or Muscle Pain may occur, consider discontinuing use if symptoms occur. (5.6) Atypical Femur Fractures have been reported. Patients with new thigh or groin pain should be evaluated to rule out a femoral fracture. (5.7) 5.1 Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism Ibandronate sodium injection may cause a decrease in serum calcium values. Treat hypocalcemia, hypovitaminosis D, and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting ibandronate sodium injection therapy. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. It is recommended that patients receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. 5.2 Anaphylactic Reaction Cases of anaphylaxis, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection. Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when ibandronate sodium injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment. 5.3 Renal Impairment Treatment with intravenous bisphosphonates has been associated with renal toxicity manifested as deterioration in renal function and acute renal failure. Although no cases of acute renal failure were observed in controlled clinical trials in which intravenous ibandronate was administered as a 15- to 30-second bolus, acute renal failure has been reported postmarketing. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection to patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). Obtain serum creatinine prior to each ibandronate sodium injection. After ibandronate sodium injection, assess renal function, as clinically appropriate, in patients with concomitant diseases or taking medications that have the potential for adverse effects on the kidney. Ibandronate sodium injection should be withheld in patients with renal deterioration. 5.4 Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration Ibandronate sodium injection must only be administered intravenously. Care must be taken not to administer ibandronate sodium injection intra-arterially or paravenously as this could lead to tissue damage. Do not administer ibandronate sodium injection by any other route of administration. The safety and efficacy of ibandronate sodium injection following non-intravenous routes of administration have not been established. 5.5 Osteonecrosis of the Jaw Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported in patients treated with bisphosphonates, including ibandronate sodium injection. Most cases have been in cancer patients treated with intravenous bisphosphonates undergoing dental procedures. Some cases have occurred in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with either oral or intravenous bisphosphonates. A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of bisphosphonate treatment. Consider a dental examination with appropriate preventive dentistry prior to treatment with bisphosphonates in patients with a history of concomitant risk factors (e.g., cancer, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy, corticosteroids, poor oral hygiene, pre-existing dental disease or infection, anemia, coagulopathy). Concomitant administration of drugs associated with ONJ may increase the risk of developing ONJ. The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. While on treatment, patients with concomitant risk factors should avoid invasive dental procedures if possible. For patients who develop ONJ while on bisphosphonate therapy, dental surgery may exacerbate the condition. For patients requiring dental procedures, there are no data available to suggest whether discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of ONJ. The clinical judgment of the treating physician should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Musculoskeletal Pain Severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain has been reported in patients taking ibandronate and other bisphosphonates [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug. Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping the bisphosphonate. A subset of patients had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Discontinue ibandronate if severe symptoms develop. 5.7 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported in bisphosphonate-treated patients. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are transverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Atypical femur fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs. A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) at the time of fracture. Any patient with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patients presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKabiven(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. Hypersensitivity reactions: Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur. (5.2) Infection, fat overload, hyperglycemia and refeeding complications : Monitor for signs and symptoms; monitor laboratory parameters. (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7) 5.1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported. Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs. Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion. The safe and effective use of PERIKABIVEN(R) injection in pediatric patients, including preterm infants, has not been established. PERIKABIVEN(R) is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years including preterm infants. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop. Signs or symptoms may include: tachypnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, bronchospasm, tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis, vomiting, nausea, headache, sweating, dizziness, altered mentation, flushing, rash, urticaria, erythema, pyrexia and chills. 5.3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state. Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition, poor maintenance of catheters, or immunosuppressive effects of illness, drugs, and parenteral formulations. Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance, as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula. Monitor for signs and symptoms (including fever and chills) of early infections, including laboratory test results (including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device. 5.4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations. A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipid contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient's condition accompanied by fever, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorders, hyperlipidemia, liver fatty infiltration (hepatomegaly), deteriorating liver function, and central nervous system manifestations (e.g., coma). The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear. The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped. Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dosage was exceeded, cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions. 5.5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome, characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic. Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop. Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes, while avoiding overfeeding, to prevent these complications. 5.6 Diabetes/Hyperglycemia PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKABIVEN(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. 5.7 Monitoring/Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration. Monitor fluid status closely in patients with heart failure or pulmonary edema. Monitor serum triglycerides, fluid and electrolyte status, serum osmolarity, blood glucose, liver and kidney function, and blood count, including platelet and coagulation parameters, throughout treatment. In situations of severely elevated electrolyte levels stop PERIKABIVEN(R) until levels have been corrected. Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for signs and symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) is recommended. Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels. Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status. Increasing essential fatty acid intake (enterally or parenterally) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD. In PERIKABIVEN(R), the mean composition of linoleic acid (an omega-6 essential fatty acid) is 19 mg/mL (range 17 to 20 mg/mL) and alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 essential fatty acid) is 2.3 mg/mL (range 1.8 to 3.8 mg/mL). There are insufficient long-term data to determine whether PERIKABIVEN(R) can supply essential fatty acids in adequate amounts in patients who may have increased requirements. 5.8 Thrombophlebitis PERIKABIVEN(R) is indicated for peripheral administration, or may be infused into a central vein. Peripheral catheters should not be used for solutions with osmolarity of >= 900 mOsm/L. The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis, which manifests as pain, erythema, tenderness or a palpable cord. The catheter should be removed as soon as thrombophlebitis develops. 5.9 Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone-calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium-containing parenteral nutrition solutions, such as PERIKABIVEN(R) in the same intravenous administration line. Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with PERIKABIVEN(R) via a Y-site. However, ceftriaxone and PERIKABIVEN(R) may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ s ee Dosing and Administration (2.1)] . 5.10 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition, including cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, hepatic steatosis, fibrosis and cirrhosis, possibly leading to hepatic failure. The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients. Increase of blood ammonia levels and hyperammonemia may occur in patients receiving amino acid solutions. In some patients this may indicate hepatic insufficiency or the presence of an inborn error of amino acid metabolism [see Contraindications (4)] or hepatic insufficiency. Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia. Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors, and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions. 5.11 Electrolyte and Fluid Imbalance in Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment, such as pre-renal azotemia, renal obstruction and protein-losing nephropathy may be at increased risk of electrolyte and fluid volume imbalance. PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage may require adjustment with specific attention to fluid, protein and electrolyte content in these patients. Monitor renal function parameters. Patients developing signs of renal impairment should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in renal disease in order to determine the appropriate PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage and other treatment options. 5.12 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient's capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion, measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion (baseline value), with each increase in dosage, and regularly throughout treatment. Reduce dose of PERIKABIVEN(R) and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg/dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia. Serum triglyceride levels above 1,000 mg/dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis. Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders, obesity, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome. In these cases, increased triglycerides can also be increased by dextrose and/or overfeeding. Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of lipid and dextrose, as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and dextrose metabolism. 5.13 Aluminum Toxicity PERIKABIVEN(R) contains no more than 25 mcg/L of aluminum. The aluminum contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with impaired kidney function. Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including preterm infants, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products. 5.14 Interference with Laboratory Tests High levels of lipids in plasma may interfere with some laboratory blood tests such as hemoglobin, triglycerides, bilirubin, LDH, and oxygen saturation, if blood is sampled before lipid has been cleared from the bloodstream. Lipids are normally cleared after a lipid-free interval of 5 to 6 hours in most patients. PERIKABIVEN(R) contains Vitamin K1 which may interfere with anticoagulant activity [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 5.15 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease (PNALD) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time, especially preterm infants, and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis. The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial. Intravenously administered phytosterols (plant sterols) contained in plant-derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been established. If PERIKABIVEN(R) treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dosage reduction.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Risk of Aluminum Toxicity: For at risk patients (renal failure or those with prolonged therapy), consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels (5.1) - Allergic Reactions: to thiamine may occur (5.2) - Hypervitaminosis A: Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk (5.3) - Vitamin K Antagonizes Warfarin's Anticoagulant Action: Monitor INR (5.4, 7.2) - Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis: Avoid during testing for this disorder (5.5) - Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses: Monitor blood vitamin concentrations (5.6) - False Negative Urine Glucose Tests: due to vitamin C (5.7) - Risk of Vitamin E Toxicity: Additional oral and parenteral vitamin E may result in elevated vitamin E blood concentrations in infants (5.8) - Low Vitamin A Levels: Monitor vitamin A levels (5.9) - Risk of E- Ferol Syndrome: due to polysorbates (5.10) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in pediatric patients with renal impairment. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution, which contain aluminum. Patients with renal impairment, including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. Consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. 5.2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. There have been rare reports of anaphylaxis following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylaxis associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported. 5.3. Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A, an ingredient found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, should be undertaken with caution [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 )]. Blood levels of Vitamin A should be monitored periodically. 5.4 Vitamin K Antagonizes the Anticoagulant Action of Warfarin Vitamin K, which is found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin.In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.5 Interferes with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia Avoid the use of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.6 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, blood concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. 5.7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations. 5.8 Vitamin E Overdose in Infants Receiving Additional Vitamin E Avoid additional oral or parental doses of vitamin E in infants. Daily dose of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains adequate concentrations of vitamin E required to achieve normal blood levels of vitamin E. Therefore, additional vitamin E supplementations of patients receiving INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may result in elevated blood concentrations of vitamin E and potential vitamin E toxicity in infants. 5.9 Risk of Low Vitamin A Levels Vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations after administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of vitamin A may be required, especially in low-birth weight infants. 5.10 Risk of E-Ferol Syndrome in Low-Birth Weight Infants E-Ferol syndrome manifested by thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction, hepatomegaly, cholestasis, ascites, hypotension and metabolic acidosis has been reported in low-birth weight infants following administration of polysorbates which are found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. No E-Ferol syndrome associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients receiving \\316\\262-lactams. (5.1) Seizures and other central nervous system adverse experiences have been reported during treatment. (5.2) Co-administration of INVANZ with valproic acid or divalproex sodium reduces the serum concentration of valproic acid potentially increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures. (5.3) Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (ranging from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis): Evaluate if diarrhea occurs. (5.4) Caution should be taken when administering INVANZ intramuscularly to avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel. (5.5) 5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with beta-lactams. These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. There have been reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity who have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions when treated with another beta-lactam. Before initiating therapy with INVANZ, careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins, cephalosporins, other beta-lactams and other allergens. If an allergic reaction to INVANZ occurs, discontinue the drug immediately. Serious anaphylactic reactions require immediate emergency treatment as clinically indicated. 5.2 Seizure Potential Seizures and other central nervous system (CNS) adverse experiences have been reported during treatment with INVANZ [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. During clinical investigations in adult patients treated with INVANZ (1 g once a day), seizures, irrespective of drug relationship, occurred in 0.5% of patients during study therapy plus 14-day follow-up period [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. These experiences have occurred most commonly in patients with CNS disorders (e.g., brain lesions or history of seizures) and/or compromised renal function. Close adherence to the recommended dosage regimen is urged, especially in patients with known factors that predispose to convulsive activity. Anticonvulsant therapy should be continued in patients with known seizure disorders. If focal tremors, myoclonus, or seizures occur, patients should be evaluated neurologically, placed on anticonvulsant therapy if not already instituted, and the dosage of INVANZ re-examined to determine whether it should be decreased or discontinued. 5.3 Interaction with Valproic Acid Case reports in the literature have shown that co-administration of carbapenems, including ertapenem, to patients receiving valproic acid or divalproex sodium results in a reduction in valproic acid concentrations. The valproic acid concentrations may drop below the therapeutic range as a result of this interaction, therefore increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures. Increasing the dose of valproic acid or divalproex sodium may not be sufficient to overcome this interaction. The concomitant use of ertapenem and valproic acid/divalproex sodium is generally not recommended. Anti-bacterials other than carbapenems should be considered to treat infections in patients whose seizures are well controlled on valproic acid or divalproex sodium. If administration of INVANZ is necessary, supplemental anti-convulsant therapy should be considered [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.4 Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) CDAD has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including ertapenem, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of Clostridium difficile. Clostridium difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of Clostridium difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against Clostridium difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of Clostridium difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. 5.5 Caution with Intramuscular Administration Caution should be taken when administering INVANZ intramuscularly to avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)]. 5.6 Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria As with other antibiotics, prolonged use of INVANZ may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms. Repeated evaluation of the patient's condition is essential. If superinfection occurs during therapy, appropriate measures should be taken. Prescribing INVANZ in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria. 5.7 Laboratory Tests While INVANZ possesses toxicity similar to the beta-lactam group of antibiotics, periodic assessment of organ system function, including renal, hepatic, and hematopoietic, is advisable during prolonged therapy."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Skeletal muscle effects (e.g., myopathy and rhabdomyolysis): predisposing factors include advanced age (>=65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. Patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician any unexplained and/or persistent muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected.(5.1, 8.5) Liver enzyme abnormalities: persistent elevations in hepatic transaminases can occur. Check liver enzyme tests before initiating therapy and as clinically indicated thereafter. (5.2) 5.1 Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with pravastatin and other drugs in this class. A history of renal impairment may be a risk factor for the development of rhabdomyolysis. Such patients merit closer monitoring for skeletal muscle effects. Uncomplicated myalgia has also been reported in pravastatin-treated patients [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Myopathy, defined as muscle aching or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase (CPK) values to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), was rare (<0.1%) in pravastatin clinical trials. Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias, muscle tenderness or weakness, and/or marked elevation of CPK. Predisposing factors include advanced age (>= 65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. IMNM is characterized by: proximal muscle weakness and elevated serum CPK, which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment; muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without significant inflammation and improvement with immunosuppressive agents. All patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and symptoms persist after discontinuing pravastatin sodium. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Pravastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. The risk of myopathy during treatment with statins is increased with concurrent therapy with either erythromycin, cyclosporine, niacin, or fibrates. However, neither myopathy nor significant increases in CPK levels have been observed in 3 reports involving a total of 100 post-transplant patients (24 renal and 76 cardiac) treated for up to 2 years concurrently with pravastatin 10 to40 mg and cyclosporine. Some of these patients also received other concomitant immunosuppressive therapies. Further, in clinical trials involving small numbers of patients who were treated concurrently with pravastatin and niacin, there were no reports of myopathy. Also, myopathy was not reported in a trial of combination pravastatin (40 mg/day) and gemfibrozil(1200 mg/day), although 4 of 75 patients on the combination showed marked CPK elevations versus 1 of 73 patients receiving placebo. There was a trend toward more frequent CPK elevations and patient withdrawals due to musculoskeletal symptoms in the group receiving combined treatment as compared with the groups receiving placebo, gemfibrozil, or pravastatin monotherapy. The use of fibrates alone may occasionally be associated with myopathy. The benefit of further alterations in lipid levels by the combined use of pravastatin sodium with fibrates should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of this combination. Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with pravastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing pravastatin with colchicine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. 5.2 Liver Statins, like some other lipid-lowering therapies, have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function. In 3 long-term (4.8 to 5.9 years), placebo-controlled clinical trials (WOS, LIPID, CARE),19,592 subjects (19,768 randomized) were exposed to pravastatin or placebo [see Clinical Studies ( 14) ]. In an analysis of serum transaminase values (ALT, AST), incidences of marked abnormalities were compared between the pravastatin and placebo treatment groups; a marked abnormality was defined as a post-treatment test value greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal for subjects with pretreatment values less than or equal to the upper limit of normal, or 4 times the pretreatment value for subjects with pretreatment values greater than the upper limit of normal but less than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal. Marked abnormalities of ALT or AST occurred with similar low frequency (<=1.2%) in both treatment groups. Overall, clinical trial experience showed that liver function test abnormalities observed during pravastatin therapy were usually asymptomatic, not associated with cholestasis, and did not appear to be related to treatment duration. In a 320-patient placebo-controlled clinical trial, subjects with chronic (>6 months) stable liver disease, due primarily to hepatitis C or non\\302\\255 alcoholic fatty liver disease, were treated with 80 mg pravastatin or placebo for up to 9 months. The primary safety endpoint was the proportion of subjects with at least one ALT >=2 times the upper limit of normal for those with normal ALT (<= the upper limit of normal) at baseline or a doubling of the baseline ALT for those with elevated ALT (> the upper limit of normal) at baseline. By Week 36, 12 out of 160 (7.5%) subjects treated with pravastatin met the prespecified safety ALT endpoint compared to 20 out of 160 (12.5%) subjects receiving placebo. Conclusions regarding liver safety are limited since the study was not large enough to establish similarity between groups (with 95% confidence) in the rates of ALT elevation. It is recommended that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of therapy and when clinically indicated. Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of pravastatin [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )]. Caution should be exercised when pravastatin is administered to patients who have a recent (<6 months) history of liver disease, have signs that may suggest liver disease (e.g., unexplained aminotransferase elevations, jaundice), or are heavy users of alcohol. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins, including pravastatin. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with pravastatin sodium, promptly interrupt therapy. If an alternate etiology is not found do not restart pravastatin sodium. 5.3 Endocrine Function Statins interfere with cholesterol synthesis and lower circulating cholesterol levels and, as such, might theoretically blunt adrenal or gonadal steroid hormone production. Results of clinical trials with pravastatin in males and post-menopausal females were inconsistent with regard to possible effects of the drug on basal steroid hormone levels. In a study of 21 males, the mean testosterone response to human chorionic gonadotropin was significantly reduced (p<0.004) after 16 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of pravastatin. However, the percentage of patients showing a >=50% rise in plasma testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation did not change significantly after therapy in these patients. The effects of statins on spermatogenesis and fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients. The effects, if any, of pravastatin on the pituitary- gonadal axis in pre-menopausal females are unknown. Patients treated with pravastatin who display clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately. Caution should also be exercised if a statin or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs (e.g., ketoconazole, spironolactone, cimetidine) that may diminish the levels or activity of steroid hormones. In a placebo-controlled study of 214 pediatric patients with HeFH, of which 106 were treated with pravastatin (20 mg in the children aged 8 to 13 years and 40 mg in the adolescents aged 14 to 18 years) for 2 years, there were no detectable differences seen in any of the endocrine parameters (ACTH, cortisol, DHEAS, FSH, LH, TSH, estradiol [girls] or testosterone [boys]) relative to placebo. There were no detectable differences seen in height and weight changes, testicular volume changes, or Tanner score relative to placebo."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Skeletal muscle effects (e.g., myopathy and rhabdomyolysis): predisposing factors include advanced age (>65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. Patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician any unexplained and/or persistent muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. (5.1, 8.5) -Liver enzyme abnormalities: persistent elevations in hepatic transaminases can occur. Check liver enzyme tests before initiating therapy and as clinically indicated thereafter. (5.2) 5.1 Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with pravastatin and other drugs in this class. A history of renal impairment may be a risk factor for the development of rhabdomyolysis. Such patients merit closer monitoring for skeletal muscle effects. Uncomplicated myalgia has also been reported in pravastatin-treated patients [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Myopathy, defined as muscle aching or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase (CPK) values to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), was rare (<0.1%) in pravastatin clinical trials. Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias, muscle tenderness or weakness, and/or marked elevation of CPK. Predisposing factors include advanced age (>65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. IMNM is characterized by: proximal muscle weakness and elevated serum CPK, which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment; muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without significant inflammation and improvement with immunosuppressive agents. All patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and symptoms persist after discontinuing pravastatin sodium. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Pravastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. The risk of myopathy during treatment with statins is increased with concurrent therapy with either erythromycin, cyclosporine, niacin, or fibrates. However, neither myopathy nor significant increases in CPK levels have been observed in 3 reports involving a total of 100 post-transplant patients (24 renal and 76 cardiac) treated for up to 2 years concurrently with pravastatin 10 to 40 mg and cyclosporine. Some of these patients also received other concomitant immunosuppressive therapies. Further, in clinical trials involving small numbers of patients who were treated concurrently with pravastatin and niacin, there were no reports of myopathy. Also, myopathy was not reported in a trial of combination pravastatin (40 mg/day) and gemfibrozil (1200 mg/day), although 4 of 75 patients on the combination showed marked CPK elevations versus 1 of 73 patients receiving placebo. There was a trend toward more frequent CPK elevations and patient withdrawals due to musculoskeletal symptoms in the group receiving combined treatment as compared with the groups receiving placebo, gemfibrozil, or pravastatin monotherapy. The use of fibrates alone may occasionally be associated with myopathy. The benefit of further alterations in lipid levels by the combined use of pravastatin sodium with fibrates should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of this combination. Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with pravastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing pravastatin with colchicine [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.2 Liver Statins, like some other lipid-lowering therapies, have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function. In placebo-controlled clinical trials subjects were exposed to pravastatin or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In an analysis of serum transaminase values (ALT, AST), incidences of marked abnormalities were compared between the pravastatin and placebo treatment groups; a marked abnormality was defined as a post-treatment test value greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal for subjects with pretreatment values less than or equal to the upper limit of normal, or 4 times the pretreatment value for subjects with pretreatment values greater than the upper limit of normal but less than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal. Marked abnormalities of ALT or AST occurred with similar low frequency (<=1.2%) in both treatment groups. Overall, clinical trial experience showed that liver function test abnormalities observed during pravastatin therapy were usually asymptomatic, not associated with cholestasis, and did not appear to be related to treatment duration. In a 320-patient placebo-controlled clinical trial, subjects with chronic (>6 months) stable liver disease, due primarily to hepatitis C or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, were treated with 80 mg pravastatin or placebo for up to 9 months. The primary safety endpoint was the proportion of subjects with at least one ALT >=2 times the upper limit of normal for those with normal ALT (<= the upper limit of normal) at baseline or a doubling of the baseline ALT for those with elevated ALT (> the upper limit of normal) at baseline. By Week 36, 12 out of 160 (7.5%) subjects treated with pravastatin met the prespecified safety ALT endpoint compared to 20 out of 160 (12.5%) subjects receiving placebo. Conclusions regarding liver safety are limited since the study was not large enough to establish similarity between groups (with 95% confidence) in the rates of ALT elevation. It is recommended that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of therapy and when clinically indicated. Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of pravastatin [see Contraindications (4.2)]. Caution should be exercised when pravastatin is administered to patients who have a recent (<6 months) history of liver disease, have signs that may suggest liver disease (e.g., unexplained aminotransferase elevations, jaundice), or are heavy users of alcohol. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins, including pravastatin. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with pravastatin sodium, promptly interrupt therapy. If an alternate etiology is not found do not restart pravastatin sodium. 5.3 Endocrine Function Statins interfere with cholesterol synthesis and lower circulating cholesterol levels and, as such, might theoretically blunt adrenal or gonadal steroid hormone production. Results of clinical trials with pravastatin in males and post-menopausal females were inconsistent with regard to possible effects of the drug on basal steroid hormone levels. In a study of 21 males, the mean testosterone response to human chorionic gonadotropin was significantly reduced (p<0.004) after 16 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of pravastatin. However, the percentage of patients showing a >=50% rise in plasma testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation did not change significantly after therapy in these patients. The effects of statins on spermatogenesis and fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients. The effects, if any, of pravastatin on the pituitary-gonadal axis in pre-menopausal females are unknown. Patients treated with pravastatin who display clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately. Caution should also be exercised if a statin or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs (e.g., ketoconazole, spironolactone, cimetidine) that may diminish the levels or activity of steroid hormones. In a placebo-controlled study of 214 pediatric patients with HeFH, of which 106 were treated with pravastatin (20 mg in the children aged 8 to 13 years and 40 mg in the adolescents aged 14 to 18 years) for 2 years, there were no detectable differences seen in any of the endocrine parameters (ACTH, cortisol, DHEAS, FSH, LH, TSH, estradiol [girls] or testosterone [boys]) relative to placebo. There were no detectable differences seen in height and weight changes, testicular volume changes, or Tanner score relative to placebo"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Skeletal muscle effects (e.g., myopathy and rhabdomyolysis): predisposing factors include advanced age (>65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. Patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician any unexplained and/or persistent muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. (5.1, 8.5) -Liver enzyme abnormalities: persistent elevations in hepatic transaminases can occur. Check liver enzyme tests before initiating therapy and as clinically indicated thereafter. (5.2) 5.1 Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with pravastatin and other drugs in this class. A history of renal impairment may be a risk factor for the development of rhabdomyolysis. Such patients merit closer monitoring for skeletal muscle effects. Uncomplicated myalgia has also been reported in pravastatin-treated patients [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Myopathy, defined as muscle aching or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase (CPK) values to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), was rare (<0.1%) in pravastatin clinical trials. Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias, muscle tenderness or weakness, and/or marked elevation of CPK. Predisposing factors include advanced age (>65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. IMNM is characterized by: proximal muscle weakness and elevated serum CPK, which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment; muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without significant inflammation and improvement with immunosuppressive agents. All patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and symptoms persist after discontinuing pravastatin sodium. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Pravastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. The risk of myopathy during treatment with statins is increased with concurrent therapy with either erythromycin, cyclosporine, niacin, or fibrates. However, neither myopathy nor significant increases in CPK levels have been observed in 3 reports involving a total of 100 post-transplant patients (24 renal and 76 cardiac) treated for up to 2 years concurrently with pravastatin 10 to 40 mg and cyclosporine. Some of these patients also received other concomitant immunosuppressive therapies. Further, in clinical trials involving small numbers of patients who were treated concurrently with pravastatin and niacin, there were no reports of myopathy. Also, myopathy was not reported in a trial of combination pravastatin (40 mg/day) and gemfibrozil (1200 mg/day), although 4 of 75 patients on the combination showed marked CPK elevations versus 1 of 73 patients receiving placebo. There was a trend toward more frequent CPK elevations and patient withdrawals due to musculoskeletal symptoms in the group receiving combined treatment as compared with the groups receiving placebo, gemfibrozil, or pravastatin monotherapy. The use of fibrates alone may occasionally be associated with myopathy. The benefit of further alterations in lipid levels by the combined use of pravastatin sodiumwith fibrates should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of this combination. Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with pravastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing pravastatin with colchicine [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.2 Liver Statins, like some other lipid-lowering therapies, have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function. In placebo-controlled clinical trials subjects were exposed to pravastatin or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In an analysis of serum transaminase values (ALT, AST), incidences of marked abnormalities were compared between the pravastatin and placebo treatment groups; a marked abnormality was defined as a post-treatment test value greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal for subjects with pretreatment values less than or equal to the upper limit of normal, or 4 times the pretreatment value for subjects with pretreatment values greater than the upper limit of normal but less than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal. Marked abnormalities of ALT or AST occurred with similar low frequency (<=1.2%) in both treatment groups. Overall, clinical trial experience showed that liver function test abnormalities observed during pravastatin therapy were usually asymptomatic, not associated with cholestasis, and did not appear to be related to treatment duration. In a 320-patient placebo-controlled clinical trial, subjects with chronic (>6 months) stable liver disease, due primarily to hepatitis C or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, were treated with 80 mg pravastatin or placebo for up to 9 months. The primary safety endpoint was the proportion of subjects with at least one ALT >=2 times the upper limit of normal for those with normal ALT (<= the upper limit of normal) at baseline or a doubling of the baseline ALT for those with elevated ALT (> the upper limit of normal) at baseline. By Week 36, 12 out of 160 (7.5%) subjects treated with pravastatin met the prespecified safety ALT endpoint compared to 20 out of 160 (12.5%) subjects receiving placebo. Conclusions regarding liver safety are limited since the study was not large enough to establish similarity between groups (with 95% confidence) in the rates of ALT elevation. It is recommended that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of therapy and when clinically indicated. Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of pravastatin [see Contraindications (4.2)]. Caution should be exercised when pravastatin is administered to patients who have a recent (<6 months) history of liver disease, have signs that may suggest liver disease (e.g., unexplained aminotransferase elevations, jaundice), or are heavy users of alcohol. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins, including pravastatin. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with pravastatin sodium, promptly interrupt therapy. If an alternate etiology is not found do not restart pravastatin sodium. 5.3 Endocrine Function Statins interfere with cholesterol synthesis and lower circulating cholesterol levels and, as such, might theoretically blunt adrenal or gonadal steroid hormone production. Results of clinical trials with pravastatin in males and post-menopausal females were inconsistent with regard to possible effects of the drug on basal steroid hormone levels. In a study of 21 males, the mean testosterone response to human chorionic gonadotropin was significantly reduced (p<0.004) after 16 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of pravastatin. However, the percentage of patients showing a >=50% rise in plasma testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation did not change significantly after therapy in these patients. The effects of statins on spermatogenesis and fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients. The effects, if any, of pravastatin on the pituitary-gonadal axis in pre-menopausal females are unknown. Patients treated with pravastatin who display clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately. Caution should also be exercised if a statin or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs (e.g., ketoconazole, spironolactone, cimetidine) that may diminish the levels or activity of steroid hormones. In a placebo-controlled study of 214 pediatric patients with HeFH, of which 106 were treated with pravastatin (20 mg in the children aged 8 to 13 years and 40 mg in the adolescents aged 14 to 18 years) for 2 years, there were no detectable differences seen in any of the endocrine parameters (ACTH, cortisol, DHEAS, FSH, LH, TSH, estradiol [girls] or testosterone [boys]) relative to placebo. There were no detectable differences seen in height and weight changes, testicular volume changes, or Tanner score relative to placebo"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Skeletal muscle effects (e.g., myopathy and rhabdomyolysis): predisposing factors include advanced age ( >65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. Patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician any unexplained and/or persistent muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. ( 5.1, 8.5) Liver enzyme abnormalities: persistent elevations in hepatic transaminases can occur. Check liver enzyme tests before initiating therapy and as clinically indicated thereafter. ( 5.2) 5.1 Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with pravastatin and other drugs in this class. A history of renal impairment may be a risk factor for the development of rhabdomyolysis. Such patients merit closer monitoring for skeletal muscle effects. Uncomplicated myalgia has also been reported in pravastatin-treated patients [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Myopathy, defined as muscle aching or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase (CPK) values to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), was rare (<0.1%) in pravastatin clinical trials. Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias, muscle tenderness or weakness, and/or marked elevation of CPK. Predisposing factors include advanced age ( >65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. IMNM is characterized by: proximal muscle weakness and elevated serum CPK, which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment; muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without significant inflammation and improvement with immunosuppressive agents. All patients should be advised to promptly report to their physician unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and symptoms persist after discontinuing pravastatin sodium. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Pravastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. The risk of myopathy during treatment with statins is increased with concurrent therapy with either erythromycin, cyclosporine, niacin, or fibrates. However, neither myopathy nor significant increases in CPK levels have been observed in 3 reports involving a total of 100 post-transplant patients (24 renal and 76 cardiac) treated for up to 2 years concurrently with pravastatin 10 to 40 mg and cyclosporine. Some of these patients also received other concomitant immunosuppressive therapies. Further, in clinical trials involving small numbers of patients who were treated concurrently with pravastatin and niacin, there were no reports of myopathy. Also, myopathy was not reported in a trial of combination pravastatin (40 mg/day) and gemfibrozil (1200 mg/day), although 4 of 75 patients on the combination showed marked CPK elevations versus 1 of 73 patients receiving placebo. There was a trend toward more frequent CPK elevations and patient withdrawals due to musculoskeletal symptoms in the group receiving combined treatment as compared with the groups receiving placebo, gemfibrozil, or pravastatin monotherapy. The use of fibrates alone may occasionally be associated with myopathy. The benefit of further alterations in lipid levels by the combined use of pravastatin sodium with fibrates should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of this combination. Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with pravastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing pravastatin with colchicine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3) ]. 5.2 Liver Statins, like some other lipid-lowering therapies, have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function. In placebo-controlled clinical trials subjects were exposed to pravastatin or placebo [see Clinical Studies ( 14) ]. In an analysis of serum transaminase values (ALT, AST), incidences of marked abnormalities were compared between the pravastatin and placebo treatment groups; a marked abnormality was defined as a post-treatment test value greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal for subjects with pretreatment values less than or equal to the upper limit of normal, or 4 times the pretreatment value for subjects with pretreatment values greater than the upper limit of normal but less than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal. Marked abnormalities of ALT or AST occurred with similar low frequency (<=1.2%) in both treatment groups. Overall, clinical trial experience showed that liver function test abnormalities observed during pravastatin therapy were usually asymptomatic, not associated with cholestasis, and did not appear to be related to treatment duration. In a 320-patient placebo-controlled clinical trial, subjects with chronic (>6 months) stable liver disease, due primarily to hepatitis C or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, were treated with 80 mg pravastatin or placebo for up to 9 months. The primary safety endpoint was the proportion of subjects with at least one ALT >=2 times the upper limit of normal for those with normal ALT (<= the upper limit of normal) at baseline or a doubling of the baseline ALT for those with elevated ALT (> the upper limit of normal) at baseline. By Week 36, 12 out of 160 (7.5%) subjects treated with pravastatin met the prespecified safety ALT endpoint compared to 20 out of 160 (12.5%) subjects receiving placebo. Conclusions regarding liver safety are limited since the study was not large enough to establish similarity between groups (with 95% confidence) in the rates of ALT elevation. It is recommended that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of therapy and when clinically indicated. Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of pravastatin [see Contraindications (4.2)]. Caution should be exercised when pravastatin is administered to patients who have a recent (<6 months) history of liver disease, have signs that may suggest liver disease (e.g., unexplained aminotransferase elevations, jaundice), or are heavy users of alcohol. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins, including pravastatin. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with pravastatin sodium, promptly interrupt therapy. If an alternate etiology is not found do not restart pravastatin sodium. 5.3 Endocrine Function Statins interfere with cholesterol synthesis and lower circulating cholesterol levels and, as such, might theoretically blunt adrenal or gonadal steroid hormone production. Results of clinical trials with pravastatin in males and post-menopausal females were inconsistent with regard to possible effects of the drug on basal steroid hormone levels. In a study of 21 males, the mean testosterone response to human chorionic gonadotropin was significantly reduced (p<0.004) after 16 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of pravastatin. However, the percentage of patients showing a >=50% rise in plasma testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation did not change significantly after therapy in these patients. The effects of statins on spermatogenesis and fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients. The effects, if any, of pravastatin on the pituitary-gonadal axis in pre-menopausal females are unknown. Patients treated with pravastatin who display clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately. Caution should also be exercised if a statin or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs (e.g., ketoconazole, spironolactone, cimetidine) that may diminish the levels or activity of steroid hormones. In a placebo-controlled study of 214 pediatric patients with HeFH, of which 106 were treated with pravastatin (20 mg in the children aged 8 to 13 years and 40 mg in the adolescents aged 14 to 18 years) for 2 years, there were no detectable differences seen in any of the endocrine parameters (ACTH, cortisol, DHEAS, FSH, LH, TSH, estradiol [girls] or testosterone [boys]) relative to placebo. There were no detectable differences seen in height and weight changes, testicular volume changes, or Tanner score relative to placebo"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy ( ) 5.1 Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothombin time ( ) 5.2 PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of associated diarrhea ( ) Clostridium difficile 5.3 Bone fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine ( ) 5.4 Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs ( ) 5.5 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. H. pylori H. pylori 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like ACIPHEX may be associated with an increased risk of associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [ ]. Clostridium difficile see Adverse Reactions ( ) 6.2 Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with ACIPHEX, refer to and sections of those package inserts. Clostridium difficile Warnings Precautions 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [ and ]. see Dosage and Administration ( ) 2 Adverse Reactions ( ) 6.2 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [ ]. see Adverse Reactions ( ) 6.2 5.6 Concomitant Use of ACIPHEX with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [ ]. see Drug Interactions ( ) 7.7"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothombin time (5.2) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.3) Bone fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.4) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.5) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like ACIPHEX may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with ACIPHEX, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.6 Concomitant Use of ACIPHEX with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7) ]."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) -Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothombin time (5.2) -PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.3) -Bone fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.4) -Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.5) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like rabeprazole sodium may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reaction (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with rabeprazole sodium, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.6 Concomitant Use of rabeprazole sodium with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothombin time (5.2) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.3) Bone fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.4) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.5) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like rabeprazole sodium may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reaction (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with rabeprazole sodium, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.6 Concomitant Use of rabeprazole sodium with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1). -Use with warfarin: Monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2). -Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs (5.3). -Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin (5.4). -PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.5). -Bone fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.6). -Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.7). 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline, 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use With Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including rabeprazole. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue rabeprazole if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo- or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed. 5.5 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like rabeprazole may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with rabeprazole, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.6 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.7 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.8 Concomitant Use of Rabeprazole With Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2) * Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs (5.3) Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin (5.4) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.5) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.6) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.7) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo-or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed. 5.5 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.6 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.7 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Use with warfarin: Monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2) Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs (5.3) Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin (5.4) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.5) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.6) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.7) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo-or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed. 5.5 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.6 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.7 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.8 Concomitant Use of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy ( ) 5.1 Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time ( ) 5.2 PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of associated diarrhea ( ) Clostridium difficile 5.3 Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine ( ) 5.4 Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs ( ) 5.5 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. H. pylori H. pylori 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may be associated with an increased risk of associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [ ]. Clostridium difficile see Adverse Reactions (6.2) Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets refer to and sections of those package inserts. Clostridium difficile , Warnings Precautions 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [ ]. see and Dosage and Administration (2) Adverse Reactions (6.2) 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [ ]. see Adverse Reactions (6.2) 5.6 Concomitant Use of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see ) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [ ]. methotrexate prescribing information see Drug Interactions (7.7)"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.3) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.4) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.5) 5.1 Presence of gastric malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant use with warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like ACIPHEX may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve. [See Adverse Reaction (6.2)] Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with ACIPHEX, refer to WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections of those package inserts. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines. {see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2) and ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)} 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically {see Adverse Reactions (6.2)}. 5.6 Concomitant use of ACIPHEX with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients. [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.3) Bone fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.4) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.5) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use With Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like rabeprazole may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with rabeprazole, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.6 Concomitant Use of Rabeprazole With Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) -Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2) -PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.3) -Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.4) -Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.5) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of those package inserts. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.6 Concomitant Use of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.2) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (5.3) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.4) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.5) 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.2 Concomitant Use with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.3 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like rabeprazole sodium may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with rabeprazole sodium, refer to WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS sections of those package inserts. 5.4 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2) and ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)]. 5.5 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)]. 5.6 Concomitant Use of Rabeprazole Sodium with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7)]."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.4) Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time due to risk of abnormal bleeding (5.5) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.6) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.7) 5.1. Clarithromycin use in pregnant women CLARITHROMYCIN SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PREGNANT WOMEN EXCEPT IN CLINICAL CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE NO ALTERNATIVE THERAPY IS APPROPRIATE. If pregnancy occurs while taking clarithromycin, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. (See WARNINGS in prescribing information for clarithromycin.) 5.2. Anaphylactic reactions associated with antibiotic use Amoxicillin: Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy. These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and/or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. There have been well-documented reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity reactions that have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions when treated with a cephalosporin. Before initiating therapy with any penicillin, careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillin, cephalosporin, and other allergens. If an allergic reaction occurs, amoxicillin should be discontinued and the appropriate therapy instituted. (See WARNINGS in prescribing information for amoxicillin.) SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE. OXYGEN, INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS, AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT, INCLUDING INTUBATION, SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED. 5.3. Pseudomembranous colitis associated with antibiotic use Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents, including clarithromycin and amoxicillin, and may range in severity from mild to life threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia. Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of \\\\"antibiotic-associated colitis\\\\". After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established, therapeutic measures should be initiated. Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone. In moderate to severe cases, consideration should be given to management with fluid and electrolytes, protein supplementation, and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridium difficile colitis. 5.4. Presence of gastric malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.5. Concomitant use with warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.6. Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines. {see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2) and ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)} 5.7. Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically {see Adverse Reactions (6.2)}."$$
"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.4) Use with warfarin: monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time (5.5) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine (5.6) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.7) 5.1 Clarithromycin use in pregnant women CLARITHROMYCIN SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PREGNANT WOMEN EXCEPT IN CLINICAL CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE NO ALTERNATIVE THERAPY IS APPROPRIATE. If pregnancy occurs while taking clarithromycin, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. (See WARNINGS in prescribing information for clarithromycin.) 5.2 Anaphylactic reactions associated with antibiotic use Amoxicillin: Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy. These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and/or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. There have been well-documented reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity reactions that have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions when treated with a cephalosporin. Before initiating therapy with any penicillin, careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillin, cephalosporin, and other allergens. If an allergic reaction occurs, amoxicillin should be discontinued and the appropriate therapy instituted. (See WARNINGS in prescribing information for amoxicillin.) SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE. OXYGEN, INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS, AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT, INCLUDING INTUBATION, SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED. 5.3 Pseudomembranous colitis associated with antibiotic use Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents, including clarithromycin and amoxicillin, and may range in severity from mild to life threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia. Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of \\\\"antibiotic-associated colitis\\\\". After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established, therapeutic measures should be initiated. Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone. In moderate to severe cases, consideration should be given to management with fluid and electrolytes, protein supplementation, and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridium difficile colitis. 5.4 Presence of gastric malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. Patients with healed GERD were treated for up to 40 months with rabeprazole and monitored with serial gastric biopsies. Patients without H. pylori infection (221 of 326 patients) had no clinically important pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa. Patients with H. pylori infection at baseline (105 of 326 patients) had mild or moderate inflammation in the gastric body or mild inflammation in the gastric antrum. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric body tended to change to moderate, whereas those graded moderate at baseline tended to remain stable. Patients with mild grades of infection or inflammation in the gastric antrum tended to remain stable. At baseline 8% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 15% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. At endpoint, 15% of patients had atrophy of glands in the gastric body and 11% had atrophy in the gastric antrum. Approximately 4% of patients had intestinal metaplasia at some point during follow-up, but no consistent changes were seen. 5.5 Concomitant use with warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. 5.6 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines. {see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2) and ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)} 5.7 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically {see Adverse Reactions (6.2)}. 5.8 Concomitant use of ACIPHEX with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration, a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients. [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS {template} Skeletal muscle effects (e.g.,myopathy and rhabdomyolysis): predisposing factors include advanced age (>65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism,and renal impairment. Patients should be advised to report promptly any symptoms of myopathy. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinuedif myopathy is diagnosed or suspected.(5.1, 8.5) Liver enzyme abnormalities: persistent elevations in hepatic transaminases can occur. Check liver enzyme tests before initiating therapy and as clinically indicated thereafter. (5.2) 5.1 Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria have been reported with pravastatin and other drugs in this class. A history of renal impairment may be a risk factor for the development of rhabdomyolysis. Such patients merit closer monitoring for skeletal muscle effects. Uncomplicated myalgia has also been reported in pravastatin-treated patients [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Myopathy, defined as muscle aching or muscle weakness in conjunction with increases in creatine phosphokinase (CPK) values to greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), was rare (<0.1%) in pravastatin clinical trials. Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgias, muscle tenderness or weakness, and/or marked elevation of CPK. Predisposing factors include advanced age (>65), uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. Patients should be advised to report promptly unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever. Pravastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Pravastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. The risk of myopathy during treatment with statins is increased with concurrent therapy with either erythromycin, cyclosporine, niacin, or fibrates. However, neither myopathy nor significant increases in CPK levels have been observed in 3 reports involving a total of 100 post-transplant patients (24 renal and 76 cardiac) treated for up to 2 years concurrently with pravastatin 10 to40 mg and cyclosporine. Some of these patients also received other concomitant immunosuppressive therapies. Further, in clinical trials involving small numbers of patients who were treated concurrently with pravastatin and niacin, there were no reports of myopathy. Also, myopathy was not reported in a trial of combination pravastatin (40 mg/day) and gemfibrozil(1200 mg/day), although 4 of 75 patients on the combination showed marked CPK elevations versus 1 of 73 patients receiving placebo. There was a trend toward more frequent CPK elevations and patient withdrawals due to musculoskeletal symptoms in the group receiving combined treatment as compared with the groups receiving placebo, gemfibrozil, or pravastatin monotherapy. The use of fibrates alone may occasionally be associated with myopathy. The benefit of further alterations in lipid levels by the combined use of pravastatin sodium with fibrates should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of this combination. Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with pravastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing pravastatin with colchicine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. 5.2 Liver Statins, like some other lipid-lowering therapies, have been associated with biochemical abnormalities of liver function. In placebo-controlled clinical trials (WOS) were exposed to pravastatin or placebo [see Clinical Studies ( 14) ]. In an analysis of serum transaminase values (ALT, AST), incidences of marked abnormalities were compared between the pravastatin and placebo treatment groups; a marked abnormality was defined as a post-treatment test value greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal for subjects with pretreatment values less than or equal to the upper limit of normal, or 4 times the pretreatment value for subjects with pretreatment values greater than the upper limit of normal but less than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal. Marked abnormalities of ALT or AST occurred with similar low frequency (<=1.2%) in both treatment groups. Overall, clinical trial experience showed that liver function test abnormalities observed during pravastatin therapy were usually asymptomatic, not associated with cholestasis, and did not appear to be related to treatment duration. In a 320-patient placebo-controlled clinical trial, subjects with chronic (>6 months) stable liver disease, due primarily to hepatitis C or non\\302\\255 alcoholic fatty liver disease, were treated with 80 mg pravastatin or placebo for up to 9 months. The primary safety endpoint was the proportion of subjects with at least one ALT >=2 times the upper limit of normal for those with normal ALT (<= the upper limit of normal) at baseline or a doubling of the baseline ALT for those with elevated ALT (> the upper limit of normal) at baseline. By Week 36, 12 out of 160 (7.5%) subjects treated with pravastatin met the prespecified safety ALT endpoint compared to 20 out of 160 (12.5%) subjects receiving placebo. Conclusions regarding liver safety are limited since the study was not large enough to establish similarity between groups (with 95% confidence) in the rates of ALT elevation. It is recommended that liver function tests be performed prior to the initiation of therapy and when clinically indicated. Active liver disease or unexplained persistent transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of pravastatin [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )]. Caution should be exercised when pravastatin is administered to patients who have a recent (<6 months) history of liver disease, have signs that may suggest liver disease (e.g., unexplained aminotransferase elevations, jaundice), or are heavy users of alcohol. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins, including pravastatin. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with pravastatin, promptly interrupt therapy. If an alternate etiology is not found do not restart pravastatin. 5.3 Endocrine Function Statins interfere with cholesterol synthesis and lower circulating cholesterol levels and, as such, might theoretically blunt adrenal or gonadal steroid hormone production. Results of clinical trials with pravastatin in males and post-menopausal females were inconsistent with regard to possible effects of the drug on basal steroid hormone levels. In a study of 21 males, the mean testosterone response to human chorionic gonadotropin was significantly reduced (p<0.004) after 16 weeks of treatment with 40 mg of pravastatin. However, the percentage of patients showing a >=50% rise in plasma testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation did not change significantly after therapy in these patients. The effects of statins on spermatogenesis and fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of patients. The effects, if any, of pravastatin on the pituitary- gonadal axis in pre-menopausal females are unknown. Patients treated with pravastatin who display clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately. Caution should also be exercised if a statin or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs (e.g., ketoconazole, spironolactone, cimetidine) that may diminish the levels or activity of steroid hormones. In a placebo-controlled study of 214 pediatric patients with HeFH, of which 106 were treated with pravastatin (20 mg in the children aged 8 to 13 years and 40 mg in the adolescents aged 14 to 18 years) for 2 years, there were no detectable differences seen in any of the endocrine parameters (ACTH, cortisol, DHEAS, FSH, LH, TSH, estradiol [girls] or testosterone [boys]) relative to placebo. There were no detectable differences seen in height and weight changes, testicular volume changes, or Tanner score relative to placebo."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -This product contains aluminum that may be toxic (5.1) -Allergic reactions to thiamine may occur (5.2) -Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease (5.3) -Vitamin K antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin (5.4) -Interference with the diagnosis of megaloblastic anemia (5.5) -Blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if deficiencies or excesses are developing (5.6) -Interference with urine glucose testing (5.7) -Incompatibility with intravenous fat emulsions (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) have been reported. 5.3. Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease, Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A, an ingredient found in INFUVITE ADULT, should be undertaken with caution [See Use in Specific Populations (8.5 and 8.6)]. 5.4 Vitamin K Antagonizes the Anticoagulant Action of Warfarin Vitamin K, which is found in INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin.In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.5 Interferes with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia Do not administer INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.6 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations to Determine if Deficiencies or Excesses are Developing In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE), blood concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if deficiencies or excesses are developing. INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. 5.7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations. 5.8 Incompatibility with Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) directly to intravenous fat emulsions."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. (5.1) Studies have shown that vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in inadequate vitamin A administration in the doses recommended with M.V.I.-12(TM). (5.2) Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. (5.3) Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine. (5.4) Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. (5.5) Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to the blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. (5.6) Blood vitamin concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. (5.7) Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause negative urine glucose determination. (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-12(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Adherence of Vitamin A to Plastic Studies have shown that vitamin A, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM), may adhere to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations in the administered M.V.I.-12(TM) doses. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 5.3 Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I.-12(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-12(TM), should be undertaken with caution [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7) ]. 5.6 Blood Sampling of Megaloblastic Anemia Patients Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the M.V.I.-12(TM) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.7 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-12(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-12(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I-12(TM) contains Vitamin C, which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. (5.1) -Studies have shown that vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in inadequate vitamin A administration in the doses recommended with M.V.I.-12(TM). (5.2) -Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. (5.3) -Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine. (5.4) -Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. (5.5) -Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to the blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. (5.6) -Blood vitamin concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. (5.7) -Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause negative urine glucose determination. (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity M.V.I.-12(TM) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 microgram per kg per day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Adherence of Vitamin A to Plastic Studies have shown that vitamin A, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM) may adhere to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations in the administered M.V.I.-12(TM) doses. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of Vitamin A may be required [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 5.3 Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add M.V.I.-12(TM) directly to intravenous fat emulsions. 5.4 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, periorbital and digital edema, have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in M.V.I.-12(TM). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I.-12(TM) have been reported. 5.5 Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision, has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver diseases with vitamin A, an ingredient found in M.V.I.-12(TM), should be undertaken with caution [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 and 8.7) ]. 5.6 Blood Sampling of Megaloblastic Anemia Patients Do not administer M.V.I.-12(TM) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the M.V.I.-12(TM) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.7 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins, such as with M.V.I.-12(TM), blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. M.V.I.-12(TM) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 5.8 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing M.V.I-12(TM) contains Vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Verify that the solution bag has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. Do not reuse. Discard unused or partially used solution bags. Verify that the ISOPLATE SOLUTION has been securely attached to the platelet additive solution line on the Trima Accel system tubing set using aseptic technique. (5)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include: Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Anaphylactic Reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Osteonecrosis of the Jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Musculoskeletal Pain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>5%) are arthralgia, back pain, and abdominal pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AuroMedics Pharma LLC at 1-866-850-2876 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Quarterly Intravenous Injection - In a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing ibandronate sodium injection administered intravenously as 3 mg every 3 months to ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 8% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group and 7.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg once every 3 months group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 6.7% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group and 8.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg every 3 months group. Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in greater than 2% of patients. Table 1 Adverse Reactions With an Incidence of at Least 2% in Patients Treated with Ibandronate Sodium Injection (3 mg once every 3 months) or Ibandronate Daily Oral Tablet (2.5 mg) * Combination of abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper  Combination of influenza-like illness and acute phase reaction \\342\\200\\241 Combination of rash, rash pruritic, rash macular, dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, exanthema, erythema, rash papular, rash generalized, dermatitis medicamentosa, rash erythematous Body System/Adverse Reaction Ibandronate 2.5 mg Daily (Oral) % (n = 465) Ibandronate Sodium Injection 3 mg every 3 months Intravenous) % (n = 469) Infections and Infestations Influenza 8 5 Nasopharyngitis 6 3 Cystitis 3 2 Gastroenteritis 3 2 Urinary Tract Infection 3 3 Bronchitis 3 2 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Pain* 6 5 Dyspepsia 4 4 Nausea 4 2 Constipation 4 3 Diarrhea 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 9 10 Back Pain 8 7 Localized Osteoarthritis 2 2 Pain in Extremity 2 3 Myalgia 1 3 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 3 2 Headache 3 4 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 3 1 Depression 2 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza-like Illness 1 5 Fatigue 1 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash\\342\\200\\241 3 2 Acute Phase Reaction-like Events Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction (APR) have been reported with intravenous bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of patients with APR-like events was higher in the intravenous treatment group (4% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group vs. 10% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg once every 3 months group). These incidence rates are based upon reporting of any of 33 potential APR-like symptoms within 3 days of an intravenous dose and lasting 7 days or less. In most cases, no specific treatment was required and the symptoms subsided within 24 to 48 hours. Injection Site Reactions Local reactions at the injection site, such as redness or swelling, were observed at a higher incidence in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg every 3 months (1.7%; 8/469) than in patients treated with placebo injections (0.2%; 1/465). In most cases, the reaction was of mild to moderate severity. Daily Oral Tablet - The safety of ibandronate 2.5 mg once daily in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in 3577 patients aged 41 to 82 years. The duration of the trials was 2 to 3 years, with 1134 patients exposed to placebo and 1140 exposed to ibandronate 2.5 mg. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 international units vitamin D supplementation daily. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 1% in the placebo group and 1.2% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 20% in the placebo group and 23% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 17% in both the placebo group and the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. Table 2 lists adverse reactions from the Treatment and Prevention Studies reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients and in more patients treated with ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet than patients treated with placebo. Table 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence greater than or equal to 2% and in More Patients Treated with Ibandronate 2.5 mg Daily Oral Tablet than in Patients Treated with Placebo in the Osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies Body System Placebo % (n = 1134) Ibandronate 2.5 mg daily % (n = 1140) Body as a Whole Back Pain 12 14 Pain in Extremity 6 8 Asthenia 2 4 Allergic Reaction 2 3 Digestive System Dyspepsia 10 12 Diarrhea 5 7 Tooth Disorder 2 4 Vomiting 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 5 6 Joint Disorder 3 4 Arthritis 3 3 Nervous System Headache 6 7 Dizziness 3 4 Vertigo 3 3 Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Infection 33 34 Bronchitis 7 10 Pneumonia 4 6 Pharyngitis 2 3 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 4 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected gastrointestinal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg daily groups were: dyspepsia (10% vs. 12%), diarrhea (5% vs. 7%), and abdominal pain (5% vs. 6%). Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected musculoskeletal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg daily groups were: back pain (12% vs. 14%), arthralgia (14% vs. 14%) and myalgia (5% vs. 6%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ibandronate sodium injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis with fatalities, angioedema, asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and dermatitis bullous [ see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Hypocalcemia: Hypocalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Renal Toxicity: Acute renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: Osteonecrosis of the jaw [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Musculoskeletal Pain: Bone, joint, or muscle pain (musculoskeletal pain), described as severe or incapacitating [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Atypical Femoral Shaft Fracture: Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Eye Inflammation: Iritis and uveitis. In some cases with other bisphosphonates, these events did not resolve until the bisphosphonate was discontinued."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include: Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Anaphylactic Reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Osteonecrosis of the Jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Musculoskeletal Pain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>5%) are arthralgia, back pain, and abdominal pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Quarterly Intravenous Injection - In a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing BONIVA Injection administered intravenously as 3 mg every 3 months to BONIVA 2.5 mg daily oral tablet in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 8.0% in the BONIVA 2.5 mg daily group and 7.5% in the BONIVA Injection 3 mg once every 3 months group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 6.7% in the BONIVA 2.5 mg daily group and 8.5% in the BONIVA Injection 3 mg every 3 months group. Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in greater than 2% of patients. Table 1 Adverse Reactions With an Incidence of at Least 2% in Patients Treated with BONIVA Injection (3 mg once every 3 months) or BONIVA Daily Oral Tablet (2.5 mg) Body System/Adverse Reaction BONIVA 2.5 mg Daily (Oral) % (n=465) BONIVA 3 mg every 3 months (Intravenous) % (n=469) Infections and Infestations Influenza 8 5 Nasopharyngitis 6 3 Cystitis 3 2 Gastroenteritis 3 2 Urinary Tract Infection 3 3 Bronchitis 3 2 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal PainCombination of abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper 6 5 Dyspepsia 4 4 Nausea 4 2 Constipation 4 3 Diarrhea 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 9 10 Back Pain 8 7 Localized Osteoarthritis 2 2 Pain in Extremity 2 3 Myalgia 1 3 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 3 2 Headache 3 4 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 3 1 Depression 2 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza-like IllnessCombination of influenza-like illness and acute phase reaction 1 5 Fatigue 1 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders RashCombination of rash, rash pruritic, rash macular, dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, exanthema, erythema, rash papular, rash generalized, dermatitis medicamentosa, rash erythematous 3 2 Acute Phase Reaction-like Events Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction (APR) have been reported with intravenous bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of patients with APR-like events was higher in the intravenous treatment group (4% in the BONIVA 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group vs. 10% in the BONIVA Injection 3 mg once every 3 months group). These incidence rates are based upon reporting of any of 33 potential APR-like symptoms within 3 days of an intravenous dose and lasting 7 days or less. In most cases, no specific treatment was required and the symptoms subsided within 24 to 48 hours. Injection Site Reactions Local reactions at the injection site, such as redness or swelling, were observed at a higher incidence in patients treated with BONIVA Injection 3 mg every 3 months (1.7%; 8/469) than in patients treated with placebo injections (0.2%; 1/465). In most cases, the reaction was of mild to moderate severity. Daily Oral Tablet - The safety of BONIVA 2.5 mg once daily in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in 3577 patients aged 41 - 82 years. The duration of the trials was 2 to 3 years, with 1134 patients exposed to placebo and 1140 exposed to BONIVA 2.5 mg. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 international units vitamin D supplementation daily. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 1% in the placebo group and 1.2% in the BONIVA 2.5 mg daily group. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 20% in the placebo group and 23% in the BONIVA 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 17% in both the placebo group and the BONIVA 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. Table 2 lists adverse reactions from the Treatment and Prevention Studies reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients and in more patients treated with BONIVA 2.5 mg daily oral tablet than patients treated with placebo. Table 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence greater than or equal to 2% and in More Patients Treated with BONIVA 2.5 mg Daily Oral Tablet than in Patients Treated with Placebo in the Osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies Body System Placebo % (n=1134) BONIVA 2.5 mg daily % (n=1140) Body as a Whole Back Pain 12 14 Pain in Extremity 6 8 Asthenia 2 4 Allergic Reaction 2 3 Digestive System Dyspepsia 10 12 Diarrhea 5 7 Tooth Disorder 2 4 Vomiting 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 5 6 Joint Disorder 3 4 Arthritis 3 3 Nervous System Headache 6 7 Dizziness 3 4 Vertigo 3 3 Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Infection 33 34 Bronchitis 7 10 Pneumonia 4 6 Pharyngitis 2 3 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 4 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected gastrointestinal adverse reactions in the placebo and BONIVA 2.5 mg daily groups were: dyspepsia (10% vs. 12%), diarrhea (5% vs. 7%), and abdominal pain (5% vs. 6%). Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected musculoskeletal adverse reactions in the placebo and BONIVA 2.5 mg daily groups were: back pain (12% vs. 14%), arthralgia (14% vs. 14%) and myalgia (5% vs. 6%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of BONIVA Injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis with fatalities, angioedema, asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and dermatitis bullous [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Hypocalcemia: Hypocalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Renal Toxicity: Acute renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: Osteonecrosis of the jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Musculoskeletal Pain: Bone, joint, or muscle pain (musculoskeletal pain), described as severe or incapacitating [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Atypical Femoral Shaft Fracture: Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Eye Inflammation: Iritis and uveitis. In some cases with other bisphosphonates, these events did not resolve until the bisphosphonate was discontinued."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include: -Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Anaphylactic Reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Osteonecrosis of the Jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Musculoskeletal Pain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>5%) are arthralgia, back pain, and abdominal pain.(6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Quarterly Intravenous Injection - In a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing ibandronate injection administered intravenously as 3 mg every 3 months to ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 8% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group and 7.5% in the ibandronate injection 3 mg once every 3 months group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 6.7% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group and 8.5% in the ibandronate injection 3 mg every 3 months group. Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in greater than 2% of patients. Table 1 Adverse Reactions with an Incidence of at Least 2% in Patients Treated with Ibandronate Injection (3 mg once every 3 months) or Ibandronate Daily Oral Tablet (2.5 mg) Body System/Adverse Reaction Ibandronate 2.5 mg Daily (Oral) % (n=465) Ibandronate 3 mg every 3 months (Intravenous) % (n=469) Infections and Infestations Influenza Nasopharyngitis Cystitis Gastroenteritis Urinary Tract Infection Bronchitis Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8 6 3 3 3 3 3 5 3 2 2 3 2 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal PainCombination of abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper Dyspepsia Nausea Constipation Diarrhea Gastritis 6 4 4 4 2 2 5 4 2 3 3 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia Back Pain Localized Osteoarthritis Pain in Extremity Myalgia 9 8 2 2 1 10 7 2 3 3 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness Headache 3 3 2 4 PsychiatricDisorders Insomnia Depression 3 2 1 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza-like IllnessCombination of influenza-like illness and acute phase reaction Fatigue 1 1 5 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders RashCombination of rash, rash pruritic, rash macular, dermatitis ,dermatitis allergic, exanthema, erythema, rash papular, rash generalized, dermatitis medicamentosa, rash erythematous 3 2 Acute Phase Reaction-like Events Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction (APR) have been reported with intravenous bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of patients with APR-like events was higher in the intravenous treatment group (4% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group vs. 10% in the ibandronate injection 3 mg once every 3 months group). These incidence rates are based upon reporting of any of 33 potential APR-like symptoms within 3 days of an intravenous dose and lasting 7 days or less. In most cases, no specific treatment was required and the symptoms subsided within 24 to 48 hours. Injection Site Reactions Local reactions at the injection site, such as redness or swelling, were observed at a higher incidence in patients treated with ibandronate injection 3 mg every 3 months (1.7%; 8/469) than in patients treated with placebo injections (0.2%; 1/465). In most cases, the reaction was of mild to moderate severity. Daily Oral Tablet - The safety of ibandronate 2.5 mg once daily in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in 3577 patients aged 41 - 82 years. The duration of the trials was 2 to 3 years, with 1134 patients exposed to placebo and 1140 exposed to ibandronate 2.5 mg. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 international units vitamin D supplementation daily. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 1% in the placebo group and 1.2% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 20% in the placebo group and 23% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 17% in both the placebo group and the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. Table 2 lists adverse reactions from the Treatment and Prevention Studies reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients and in more patients treated with ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet than patients treated with placebo. Table 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence greater than or equal to 2% and in More Patients Treated with Ibandronate 2.5 mg Daily Oral Tablet than in Patients Treated with Placebo in the Osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies Body System Placebo % (n=1134) Ibandronate 2.5 mg daily % (n=1140) Body as a Whole Back Pain Pain in Extremity Asthenia Allergic Reaction 12 6 2 2 14 8 4 3 Digestive System Dyspepsia Diarrhea Tooth Disorder Vomiting Gastritis 10 5 2 2 2 12 7 4 3 2 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia Joint Disorder Arthritis 5 3 3 6 4 3 Nervous System Headache Dizziness Vertigo 6 3 3 7 4 3 Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Infection Bronchitis Pneumonia Pharyngitis 33 7 4 2 34 10 6 3 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 4 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected gastrointestinal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg daily groups were: dyspepsia (10% vs. 12%), diarrhea (5% vs. 7%), and abdominal pain (5% vs. 6%). Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected musculoskeletal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg daily groups were: back pain (12% vs. 14%), arthralgia (14% vs. 14%) and myalgia (5% vs. 6%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ibandronate injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis with fatalities, angioedema, asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and dermatitis bullous [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Hypocalcemia: Hypocalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Renal Toxicity: Acute renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: Osteonecrosis of the jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Musculoskeletal Pain: Bone, joint, or muscle pain (musculoskeletal pain), described as severe or incapacitating [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Atypical Femoral Shaft Fracture: Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Eye Inflammation: Iritis and uveitis. In some cases with other bisphosphonates, these events did not resolve until the bisphosphonate was discontinued."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include: Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Anaphylactic Reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Osteonecrosis of the Jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Musculoskeletal Pain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>5%) are arthralgia, back pain, and abdominal pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-866-625-1618 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Quarterly Intravenous Injection In a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing ibandronate sodium injection administered intravenously as 3 mg (ibandronate) every 3 months to ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 8.0% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group and 7.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg (ibandronate) once every 3 months group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 6.7% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group and 8.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg (ibandronate) every 3 months group. Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in greater than 2% of patients. Table 1 Adverse Reactions With an Incidence of at Least 2% in Patients Treated with Ibandronate Sodium Injection (3 mg [ibandronate] once every 3 months) or Ibandronate Daily Oral Tablet (2.5 mg) * Combination of abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper  Combination of influenza-like illness and acute phase reaction \\342\\200\\241 Combination of rash, rash pruritic, rash macular, dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, exanthema, erythema, rash papular, rash generalized, dermatitis medicamentosa, rash erythematous Body System/Adverse Reaction Ibandronate 2.5 mg Daily (Oral) % (n=465) Ibandronate Sodium Injection 3 mg (ibandronate) every 3 months (Intravenous) % (n=469) Infections and Infestations Influenza 8 5 Nasopharyngitis 6 3 Cystitis 3 2 Gastroenteritis 3 2 Urinary Tract Infection 3 3 Bronchitis 3 2 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Pain* 6 5 Dyspepsia 4 4 Nausea 4 2 Constipation 4 3 Diarrhea 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 9 10 Back Pain 8 7 Localized Osteoarthritis 2 2 Pain in Extremity 2 3 Myalgia 1 3 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 3 2 Headache 3 4 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 3 1 Depression 2 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza-like Illness 1 5 Fatigue 1 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash\\342\\200\\241 3 2 Acute Phase Reaction-like Events Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction (APR) have been reported with intravenous bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of patients with APR-like events was higher in the intravenous treatment group (4% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group vs. 10% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg (ibandronate) once every 3 months group). These incidence rates are based upon reporting of any of 33 potential APR-like symptoms within 3 days of an intravenous dose and lasting 7 days or less. In most cases, no specific treatment was required and the symptoms subsided within 24 to 48 hours. Injection Site Reactions Local reactions at the injection site, such as redness or swelling, were observed at a higher incidence in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg (ibandronate) every 3 months (1.7%; 8/469) than in patients treated with placebo injections (0.2%; 1/465). In most cases, the reaction was of mild to moderate severity. Daily Oral Tablet The safety of ibandronate 2.5 mg once daily in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in 3577 patients aged 41 - 82 years. The duration of the trials was 2 to 3 years, with 1134 patients exposed to placebo and 1140 exposed to ibandronate 2.5 mg. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 international units vitamin D supplementation daily. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 1% in the placebo group and 1.2% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily group. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 20% in the placebo group and 23% in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 17% in both the placebo group and the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. Table 2 lists adverse reactions from the Treatment and Prevention Studies reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients and in more patients treated with ibandronate 2.5 mg daily oral tablet than patients treated with placebo. Table 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence greater than or equal to 2% and in More Patients Treated with Ibandronate 2.5 mg Daily Oral Tablet than in Patients Treated with Placebo in the Osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies Body System Placebo % (n=1134) Ibandronate 2.5 mg daily % (n=1140) Body as a Whole Back Pain 12 14 Pain in Extremity 6 8 Asthenia 2 4 Allergic Reaction 2 3 Digestive System Dyspepsia 10 12 Diarrhea 5 7 Tooth Disorder 2 4 Vomiting 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 5 6 Joint Disorder 3 4 Arthritis 3 3 Nervous System Headache 6 7 Dizziness 3 4 Vertigo 3 3 Respiratory System Upper Respiratory 33 34 Infection Bronchitis 7 10 Pneumonia 4 6 Pharyngitis 2 3 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 4 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected gastrointestinal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg daily groups were: dyspepsia (10% vs. 12%), diarrhea (5% vs. 7%), and abdominal pain (5% vs. 6%). Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected musculoskeletal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg daily groups were: back pain (12% vs. 14%), arthralgia (14% vs. 14%) and myalgia (5% vs. 6%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ibandronate sodium injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis with fatalities, angioedema, asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and dermatitis bullous [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Hypocalcemia: Hypocalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Renal Toxicity: Acute renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: Osteonecrosis of the jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Musculoskeletal Pain: Bone, joint, or muscle pain (musculoskeletal pain), described as severe or incapacitating [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Atypical Femoral Shaft Fracture: Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Eye Inflammation: Iritis and uveitis. In some cases with other bisphosphonates, these events did not resolve until the bisphosphonate was discontinued."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include: Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Anaphylactic Reaction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Osteonecrosis of the Jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Musculoskeletal Pain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>5%) are arthralgia, back pain, and abdominal pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc. at 1-800-818-4555 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Quarterly Intravenous Injection - In a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing ibandronate sodium injection administered intravenously as 3 mg every 3 months to ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily oral tablet in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 8% in the ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily group and 7.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg once every 3 months group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 6.7% in the ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily group and 8.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg every 3 months group. Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in greater than 2% of patients. Table 1 Adverse Reactions With an Incidence of at Least 2% in Patients Treated with Ibandronate Sodium Injection (3 mg once every 3 months) or Ibandronate Sodium Tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) Daily Oral Tablet Body System/Adverse Reaction Ibandronate Sodium Tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) Daily (Oral) % (n=465) Ibandronate Sodium Injection 3 mg every 3 months (Intravenous) % (n=469) Infections and Infestations Influenza 8 5 Nasopharyngitis 6 3 Cystitis 3 2 Gastroenteritis 3 2 Urinary Tract Infection 3 3 Bronchitis 3 2 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 3 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal PainCombination of abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper 6 5 Dyspepsia 4 4 Nausea 4 2 Constipation 4 3 Diarrhea 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 9 10 Back Pain 8 7 Localized Osteoarthritis 2 2 Pain in Extremity 2 3 Myalgia 1 3 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness 3 2 Headache 3 4 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 3 1 Depression 2 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza-like IllnessCombination of influenza-like illness and acute phase reaction 1 5 Fatigue 1 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders RashCombination of rash, rash pruritic, rash macular, dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, exanthema, erythema, rash papular, rash generalized, dermatitis medicamentosa, rash erythematous 3 2 Acute Phase Reaction-like Events Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction (APR) have been reported with intravenous bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of patients with APR-like events was higher in the intravenous treatment group (4% in the ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily oral tablet group vs. 10% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg once every 3 months group). These incidence rates are based upon reporting of any of 33 potential APR-like symptoms within 3 days of an intravenous dose and lasting 7 days or less. In most cases, no specific treatment was required and the symptoms subsided within 24 to 48 hours. Injection Site Reactions Local reactions at the injection site, such as redness or swelling, were observed at a higher incidence in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg every 3 months (1.7%; 8/469) than in patients treated with placebo injections (0.2%; 1/465). In most cases, the reaction was of mild to moderate severity. Daily Oral Tablet - The safety of ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) once daily in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in 3,577 patients aged 41 to 82 years. The duration of the trials was 2 to 3 years, with 1,134 patients exposed to placebo and 1,140 exposed to ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate). Patients with preexisting gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 international units vitamin D supplementation daily. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 1% in the placebo group and 1.2% in the ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily group. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 20% in the placebo group and 23% in the ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily oral tablet group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 17% in both the placebo group and the ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily oral tablet group. Table 2 lists adverse reactions from the Treatment and Prevention Studies reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients and in more patients treated with ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily oral tablet than patients treated with placebo. Table 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence greater than or equal to 2% and in More Patients Treated with Ibandronate Sodium Tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) Daily Oral Tablet than in Patients Treated with Placebo in the Osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies Body System Placebo % (n=1,134) Ibandronate Sodium Tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily % (n=1,140) Body as a Whole Back Pain 12 14 Pain in Extremity 6 8 Asthenia 2 4 Allergic Reaction 2 3 Digestive System Dyspepsia 10 12 Diarrhea 5 7 Tooth Disorder 2 4 Vomiting 2 3 Gastritis 2 2 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 5 6 Joint Disorder 3 4 Arthritis 3 3 Nervous System Headache 6 7 Dizziness 3 4 Vertigo 3 3 Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Infection 33 34 Bronchitis 7 10 Pneumonia 4 6 Pharyngitis 2 3 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 4 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected gastrointestinal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily groups were: dyspepsia (10% vs. 12%), diarrhea (5% vs. 7%), and abdominal pain (5% vs. 6%). Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected musculoskeletal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate sodium tablets 2.5 mg (ibandronate) daily groups were: back pain (12% vs. 14%), arthralgia (14% vs. 14%) and myalgia (5% vs. 6%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ibandronate sodium injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis with fatalities, angioedema, asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and dermatitis bullous [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Hypocalcemia: Hypocalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Renal Toxicity: Acute renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: Osteonecrosis of the jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Musculoskeletal Pain: Bone, joint, or muscle pain (musculoskeletal pain), described as severe or incapacitating [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Atypical Femoral Shaft Fracture: Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Eye Inflammation: Iritis and uveitis. In some cases with other bisphosphonates, these events did not resolve until the bisphosphonate was discontinued."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS -In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1). -In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Torrent Pharma Inc. at 1-269-544-2299 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to rabeprazole sodium in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of rabeprazole sodium. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of rabeprazole sodium patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of rabeprazole sodium treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to rabeprazole sodium that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of rabeprazole sodium. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1). In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Torrent Pharma Inc. at 1-269-544-2299 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to rabeprazole sodium in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of rabeprazole sodium. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of rabeprazole sodium patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of rabeprazole sodium treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to rabeprazole sodium that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of rabeprazole sodium. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-399-2561 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to rabeprazole sodium in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18 to 89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60 % male: 40 % female. The racial distribution was 86 % Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of rabeprazole sodium. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >=2 % of rabeprazole sodium patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3 % vs. 2 %), flatulence (3 % vs. 1 %), infection (2 % vs. 1 %), and constipation (2 % vs. 1 %). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54 % of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33 %) and 241 (33 %) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium, respectively, while 169 (23 %) patients received placebo and 83 (11 %) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>=2 % of rabeprazole sodium treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8 % and 7 %) and taste perversion (6 % and 10 %), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, ADVERSE REACTIONS section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to rabeprazole sodium that occurred in >=2 % of 111 patients were headache (9.9 %), diarrhea (4.5 %), nausea (4.5 %), vomiting (3.6 %), and abdominal pain (3.6 %). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >=2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of rabeprazole sodium. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS ISOPLATE SOLUTION is added to platelets after the apheresis procedure is complete. It is not for direct intravenous infusion. It is expected to cause adverse events that are normally associated with platelet transfusion. ISOPLATE SOLUTION is expected to cause adverse events that are seen with platelet transfusion. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Terumo BCT, Inc. at 1-877-339-4228 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience No adverse reactions were reported in the subjects infused with < 10 mL of radiolabeled platelets stored for 5 days in 65% ISOPLATE SOLUTION, and rinsed prior to infusion [See Clinical Studies (14).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Pravastatin is generally well tolerated; adverse reactions have usually been mild and transient. In4-month-long placebo-controlled trials, 1.7% of pravastatin-treated patients and 1.2% of placebo-treated patients were discontinued from treatment because of adverse experiences attributed to study drug therapy; this difference was not statistically significant. In short-term clinical trials, the most commonly reported adverse reactions (>=2% and > placebo) regardless of causality were: musculoskeletal pain, nausea/vomiting, upper respiratory infection, diarrhea, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Adverse Clinical Events Short-Term Controlled Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1313 patients (age range 20 to 76 years, 32.4% women, 93.5% Caucasians, 5% Blacks, 0.9% Hispanics, 0.4% Asians, 0.2% Others) with a median treatment duration of 14 weeks, 3.3% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 1.2% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. The most common adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at an incidence greater than placebo were: liver function test increased, nausea, anxiety/depression, and dizziness. All adverse clinical events (regardless of causality) reported in >=2% of pravastatin-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials of up to 8 months duration are identified in Table 1: Table 1: Adverse Events in \\302\\2632% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 5 to 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Short-Term Placebo-Controlled Trials (% of patients Body System/Event 5 mg N=100 1 0 mg N=153 2 0 mg N=478 4 0 mg N=171 Any Dose N=902 Placebo N=411 Cardiovascular Angina Pectoris 5 4.6 4.8 3.5 4.5 3.4 Dermatologic Rash 3 2.6 6.7 1.2 4.5 1.4 Gastrointestinal Nausea/Vomiting Diarrhea Flatulence Dyspepsia/Heartburn Abdominal Distension 4 8 2 0 2 5.9 8.5 3.3 3.3 3.3 10.5 6.5 4.6 3.6 2.1 2.3 4.7 0 0.6 0.6 7.4 6.7 3.2 2.5 2 7.1 5.6 4.4 2.7 2.4 General Fatigue 4 1.3 5.2 0 3.4 3.9 Chest Pain Influenza 4 4 1.3 2.6 3.3 1.9 1.2 0.6 2.7 2 1.9 0.7 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain Myalgia 13 1 3.9 2.6 13.2 2.9 5.3 1.2 10.1 2.3 10.2 1.2 Nervous System Headache Dizziness 5 4 6.5 1.3 7.5 5.2 3.5 0.6 6.3 3.5 4.6 3.4 Respiratory Pharyngitis Upper Respiratory Infection Rhinitis Cough 2 6 7 4 4.6 9.8 5.2 1.3 1.5 5.2 3.8 3.1 1.2 4.1 1.2 1.2 2 5.9 3.9 2.5 2.7 5.8 4.9 1.7 Investigation ALT Increased g-GT Increased CPK Increased 2 3 5 2 2.6 1.3 4 2.1 5.2 1.2 0.6 2.9 2.9 2 4.1 1.2 1.2 3.6 The safety and tolerability of pravastatin sodium at a dose of 80 mg in 2 controlled trials with a mean exposure of 8.6 months was similar to that of pravastatin sodium at lower doses except that 4 out of 464 patients taking 80 mg of pravastatin had a single elevation of CK >10 times ULN compared to 0 out of 115 patients taking 40 mg of pravastatin. Long-Term Controlled Morbidity and Mortality Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 21,483 patients (age range 24 to 75 years, 10.3% women, 52.3% Caucasians, 0.8% Blacks, 0.5% Hispanics, 0.1% Asians, 0.1% Others, 46.1% Not Recorded) with a median treatment duration of 261 weeks, 8.1% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 9.3% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. Adverse event data were pooled from 7 double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study [WOS] Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries study [PLAC I]; Pravastatin, Lipids and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids study [PLAC II]; Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study [REGRESS]; and Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study [KAPS]) involving a total of 10,764 patients treated with pravastatin 40 mg and 10,719 patients treated with placebo. The safety and tolerability profile in the pravastatin group was comparable to that of the placebo group. Patients were exposed to pravastatin for a mean of 4 to 5.1 years in WOS and 1.9 to 2.9 years in PLAC I, PLAC II, KAPS, and REGRESS. In these long-term trials, the most common reasons for discontinuation were mild, non-specific gastrointestinal complaints. Collectively, these 7 trials represent 47,613 patient-years of exposure to pravastatin. All clinical adverse events (regardless of causality) occurring in >=2% of patients treated with pravastatin in these studies are identified in Table 2. Table 2: Adverse Events in >=2% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Long-Term Placebo- Controlled Trials Body System/Event Pravastatin (N =1 0 , 7 6 4) % of patients Placebo (N =1 0 , 7 1 9) % of patients Dermatologic Rash (including dermatitis) 7.2 7.1 General Edema Fatigue Chest pain Fever Weight Gain Weight Loss 3 8.4 10 2.1 3.8 3.3 2.7 7.8 9.8 1.9 3.3 2.8 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain Muscle Cramp Musculoskeletal Traumatism 24.9 5.1 10.2 24.4 4.6 9.6 Nervous System Dizziness Sleep Disturbance Anxiety/Nervousness Paresthesia 7.3 3 4.8 3.2 6.6 2.4 4.7 3 Renal/Genitourinary Urinary Tract Infection 2.7 2.6 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection Cough Influenza Pulmonary Infection 21.2 8.2 9.2 3.8 20.2 7.4 9 3.5 Sinus Abnormality Tracheobronchitis 7 3.4 6.7 3.1 Special Senses Vision Disturbance (includes blurred vision, diplopia) 3.4 3.3 Infections Viral Infection 3.2 2.9 In addition to the events listed above in the long-term trials table, events of probable, possible, or uncertain relationship to study drug that occurred in <2% of pravastatin-treated patients in the long-term trials included the following: Dermatologic: scalp hair abnormality (including alopecia), urticaria. Endocrine/Metabolic: sexual dysfunction, libido change. General: flushing. Immunologic: allergy, edema head/neck. Musculoskeletal: muscle weakness. Nervous System: vertigo, insomnia, memory impairment, neuropathy (including peripheral neuropathy). Special Senses: taste disturbance. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the events reported above, as with other drugs in this class, the following events have been reported rarely during postmarketing experience with pravastatin sodium, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal: myopathy, rhabdomyolysis. Nervous System: dysfunction of certain cranial nerves (including alteration of taste, impairment of extraocular movement, facial paresis), peripheral nerve palsy. There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. These cognitive issues have been reported for all statins. The reports are generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks). Hypersensitivity: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematosus-like syndrome, polymyalgia rheumatica, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, purpura, hemolytic anemia, positive ANA, ESR increase, arthritis, arthralgia, asthenia, photosensitivity, chills, malaise, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, constipation, pancreatitis, hepatitis (including chronic active hepatitis), cholestatic jaundice, fatty change in liver, cirrhosis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, hepatoma, fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure. Dermatologic: a variety of skin changes (e.g., nodules, discoloration, dryness of mucous membranes, changes to hair/nails). Renal: urinary abnormality (including dysuria, frequency, nocturia). Respiratory: dyspnea. Reproductive: gynecomastia. Laboratory Abnormalities: liver function test abnormalities, thyroid function abnormalities. 6.3 Laboratory Test Abnormalities Increases in ALT, AST values and CPK have been observed [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Transient, asymptomatic eosinophilia has been reported. Eosinophil counts usually returned to normal despite continued therapy. Anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia have been reported with statins. 6.4 Pediatric Patients In a 2-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study involving 100 boys and 114 girls with HeFH (n=214; age range 8 to 18.5 years, 53% female, 95% Caucasians, <1% Blacks, 3% Asians, 1% Other), the safety and tolerability profile of pravastatin was generally similar to that of placebo. [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Pravastatin is generally well tolerated; adverse reactions have usually been mild and transient. In4-month-long placebo-controlled trials, 1.7% of pravastatin-treated patients and 1.2% of placebo-treated patients were discontinued from treatment because of adverse experiences attributed to study drug therapy; this difference was not statistically significant. In short-term clinical trials, the most commonly reported adverse reactions (>=2% and > placebo) regardless of causality were: musculoskeletal pain, nausea/vomiting, upper respiratory infection, diarrhea, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, Inc. at 1-888-375-3784 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Adverse Clinical Events Short-Term Controlled Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1313 patients (age range 20 to 76 years, 32.4% women, 93.5% Caucasians, 5% Blacks, 0.9% Hispanics, 0.4% Asians, 0.2% Others) with a median treatment duration of 14 weeks, 3.3% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 1.2% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. The most common adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at an incidence greater than placebo were: liver function test increased, nausea, anxiety/depression, and dizziness. All adverse clinical events (regardless of causality) reported in >=2% of pravastatin-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials of up to 8 months duration are identified in Table 1: Table 1: Adverse Events in \\302\\2632% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 5 to 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Short-Term Placebo-Controlled Trials (% of patients Body System/Event 5 mg N=100 1 0 mg N=153 2 0 mg N=478 4 0 mg N=171 Any Dose N=902 Placebo N=411 Cardiovascular Angina Pectoris 5 4.6 4.8 3.5 4.5 3.4 Dermatologic Rash 3 2.6 6.7 1.2 4.5 1.4 Gastrointestinal Nausea/Vomiting Diarrhea Flatulence Dyspepsia/Heartburn Abdominal Distension 4 8 2 0 2 5.9 8.5 3.3 3.3 3.3 10.5 6.5 4.6 3.6 2.1 2.3 4.7 0 0.6 0.6 7.4 6.7 3.2 2.5 2 7.1 5.6 4.4 2.7 2.4 General Fatigue 4 1.3 5.2 0 3.4 3.9 Chest Pain Influenza 4 4 1.3 2.6 3.3 1.9 1.2 0.6 2.7 2 1.9 0.7 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain Myalgia 13 1 3.9 2.6 13.2 2.9 5.3 1.2 10.1 2.3 10.2 1.2 Nervous System Headache Dizziness 5 4 6.5 1.3 7.5 5.2 3.5 0.6 6.3 3.5 4.6 3.4 Respiratory Pharyngitis Upper Respiratory Infection Rhinitis Cough 2 6 7 4 4.6 9.8 5.2 1.3 1.5 5.2 3.8 3.1 1.2 4.1 1.2 1.2 2 5.9 3.9 2.5 2.7 5.8 4.9 1.7 Investigation ALT Increased g-GT Increased CPK Increased 2 3 5 2 2.6 1.3 4 2.1 5.2 1.2 0.6 2.9 2.9 2 4.1 1.2 1.2 3.6 The safety and tolerability of pravastatin sodium at a dose of 80 mg in 2 controlled trials with a mean exposure of 8.6 months was similar to that of pravastatin sodium at lower doses except that 4 out of 464 patients taking 80 mg of pravastatin had a single elevation of CK >10 times ULN compared to 0 out of 115 patients taking 40 mg of pravastatin. Long-Term Controlled Morbidity and Mortality Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 21,483 patients (age range 24 to 75 years, 10.3% women, 52.3% Caucasians, 0.8% Blacks, 0.5% Hispanics, 0.1% Asians, 0.1% Others, 46.1% Not Recorded) with a median treatment duration of 261 weeks, 8.1% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 9.3% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. Adverse event data were pooled from several double-blinded, placebo-controlled trials (West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study [WOS]; Cholesterol and Recurrent Events study [CARE]; Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischemic Disease study [LIPID]; Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries study [PLAC I]; Pravastatin, Lipids and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids study [PLAC II]; Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study [REGRESS]; and Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study [KAPS]) involving a total of 10,764 patients treated with pravastatin 40 mg and 10,719 patients treated with placebo. The safety and tolerability profile in the pravastatin group was comparable to that of the placebo group. Patients were exposed to pravastatin for a mean of 4 to 5.1 years in WOS, CARE, and LIPID and 1.9 to 2.9 years in PLAC I, PLAC II, KAPS, and REGRESS. In these long-term trials, the most common reasons for discontinuation were mild, non-specific gastrointestinal complaints. Collectively, these 7 trials represent 47,613 patient-years of exposure to pravastatin. All clinical adverse events (regardless of causality) occurring in >=2% of patients treated with pravastatin in these studies are identified in Table 2. Table 2: Adverse Events in >=2% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Long-Term Placebo- Controlled Trials Body System/Event Pravastatin (N =1 0 , 7 6 4) % of patients Placebo (N =1 0 , 7 1 9) % of patients Dermatologic Rash (including dermatitis) 7.2 7.1 General Edema Fatigue Chest pain Fever Weight Gain Weight Loss 3 8.4 10 2.1 3.8 3.3 2.7 7.8 9.8 1.9 3.3 2.8 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain Muscle Cramp Musculoskeletal Traumatism 24.9 5.1 10.2 24.4 4.6 9.6 Nervous System Dizziness Sleep Disturbance Anxiety/Nervousness Paresthesia 7.3 3 4.8 3.2 6.6 2.4 4.7 3 Renal/Genitourinary Urinary Tract Infection 2.7 2.6 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection Cough Influenza Pulmonary Infection 21.2 8.2 9.2 3.8 20.2 7.4 9 3.5 Sinus Abnormality Tracheobronchitis 7 3.4 6.7 3.1 Special Senses Vision Disturbance (includes blurred vision, diplopia) 3.4 3.3 Infections Viral Infection 3.2 2.9 In addition to the events listed above in the long-term trials table, events of probable, possible, or uncertain relationship to study drug that occurred in <2% of pravastatin-treated patients in the long-term trials included the following: Dermatologic: scalp hair abnormality (including alopecia), urticaria. Endocrine/Metabolic: sexual dysfunction, libido change. General: flushing. Immunologic: allergy, edema head/neck. Musculoskeletal: muscle weakness. Nervous System: vertigo, insomnia, memory impairment, neuropathy (including peripheral neuropathy). Special Senses: taste disturbance. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the events reported above, as with other drugs in this class, the following events have been reported rarely during postmarketing experience with pravastatin sodium, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal: myopathy, rhabdomyolysis. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy associated with statin use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Nervous System: dysfunction of certain cranial nerves (including alteration of taste, impairment of extraocular movement, facial paresis), peripheral nerve palsy. There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. These cognitive issues have been reported for all statins. The reports are generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks). Hypersensitivity: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematosus-like syndrome, polymyalgia rheumatica, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, purpura, hemolytic anemia, positive ANA, ESR increase, arthritis, arthralgia, asthenia, photosensitivity, chills, malaise, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, constipation, pancreatitis, hepatitis (including chronic active hepatitis), cholestatic jaundice, fatty change in liver, cirrhosis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, hepatoma, fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure. Dermatologic: a variety of skin changes (e.g., nodules, discoloration, dryness of mucous membranes, changes to hair/nails). Renal: urinary abnormality (including dysuria, frequency, nocturia). Respiratory: dyspnea. Reproductive: gynecomastia. Laboratory Abnormalities: liver function test abnormalities, thyroid function abnormalities. 6.3 Laboratory Test Abnormalities Increases in ALT, AST values and CPK have been observed [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Transient, asymptomatic eosinophilia has been reported. Eosinophil counts usually returned to normal despite continued therapy. Anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia have been reported with statins. 6.4 Pediatric Patients In a 2-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study involving 100 boys and 114 girls with HeFH (n=214; age range 8 to 18.5 years, 53% female, 95% Caucasians, <1% Blacks, 3% Asians, 1% Other), the safety and tolerability profile of pravastatin was generally similar to that of placebo. [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Pravastatin is generally well tolerated; adverse reactions have usually been mild and transient. In 4-month-long placebo-controlled trials, 1.7% of pravastatin-treated patients and 1.2% of placebo-treated patients were discontinued from treatment because of adverse experiences attributed to study drug therapy; this difference was not statistically significant. In short-term clinical trials, the most commonly reported adverse reactions (>=2% and > placebo) regardless of causality were: musculoskeletal pain, nausea/vomiting, upper respiratory infection, diarrhea, and headache. ( 6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Glenmark Generics Inc., USA at 1(888)721-7115 or www.glenmarkgenerics.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Adverse Clinical Events Short-Term Controlled Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1313 patients (age range 20 to 76 years, 32.4% women, 93.5% Caucasians, 5% Blacks, 0.9% Hispanics, 0.4% Asians, 0.2% Others) with a median treatment duration of 14 weeks, 3.3% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 1.2% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. The most common adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at an incidence greater than placebo were: liver function test increased, nausea, anxiety/depression, and dizziness. All adverse clinical events (regardless of causality) reported in >=2% of pravastatin-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials of up to 8 months duration are identified in Table 1: Table 1: Adverse Events in >=2% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 5 to 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Short-Term Placebo-Controlled Trials (% of Patients) Body System/Event 5 mg N=100 10 mg N=153 20 mg N=478 40 mg N=171 Any Dose N=902 Placebo N=411 Cardiovascular Angina Pectoris 5 4.6 4.8 3.5 4.5 3.4 Dermatologic Rash 3 2.6 6.7 1.2 4.5 1.4 Gastrointestinal Nausea/Vomiting 4 5.9 10.5 2.3 7.4 7.1 Diarrhea 8 8.5 6.5 4.7 6.7 5.6 Flatulence 2 3.3 4.6 0 3.2 4.4 Dyspepsia/Heartburn 0 3.3 3.6 0.6 2.5 2.7 Abdominal Distension 2 3.3 2.1 0.6 2 2.4 General Fatigue 4 1.3 5.2 0 3.4 3.9 Chest Pain 4 1.3 3.3 1.2 2.7 1.9 Influenza 4 2.6 1.9 0.6 2 0.7 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain 13 3.9 13.2 5.3 10.1 10.2 Myalgia 1 2.6 2.9 1.2 2.3 1.2 Nervous System Headache 5 6.5 7.5 3.5 6.3 4.6 Dizziness 4 1.3 5.2 0.6 3.5 3.4 Respiratory Pharyngitis 2 4.6 1.5 1.2 2 2.7 Upper Respiratory Infection 6 9.8 5.2 4.1 5.9 5.8 Rhinitis 7 5.2 3.8 1.2 3.9 4.9 Cough 4 1.3 3.1 1.2 2.5 1.7 Investigation ALT Increased 2 2 4 1.2 2.9 1.2 g-GT Increased 3 2.6 2.1 0.6 2 1.2 CPK Increased 5 1.3 5.2 2.9 4.1 3.6 The safety and tolerability of pravastatin sodium at a dose of 80 mg in 2 controlled trials with a mean exposure of 8.6 months was similar to that of pravastatin sodium at lower doses except that 4 out of 464 patients taking 80 mg of pravastatin had a single elevation of CK >10 times ULN compared to 0 out of 115 patients taking 40 mg of pravastatin. Long-Term Controlled Morbidity and Mortality Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 21,483 patients (age range 24 to 75 years, 10.3% women, 52.3% Caucasians, 0.8% Blacks, 0.5% Hispanics, 0.1% Asians, 0.1% Others, 46.1% Not Recorded) with a median treatment duration of 261 weeks, 8.1% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 9.3% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. Adverse event data were pooled from several double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (e.g., West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study [WOS]; Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries study [PLAC I]; Pravastatin, Lipids and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids study [PLAC II]; Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study [REGRESS]; and Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study [KAPS]) involving a total of 10,764 patients treated with pravastatin 40 mg and 10,719 patients treated with placebo. The safety and tolerability profile in the pravastatin group was comparable to that of the placebo group. Patients were exposed to pravastatin for a mean of 4.0 to 5.1 years in, among other trials, WOS, and 1.9 to 2.9 years in PLAC I, PLAC II, KAPS, and REGRESS. In these long-term trials, the most common reasons for discontinuation were mild, non-specific gastrointestinal complaints. Collectively, these trials represent 47,613 patient-years of exposure to pravastatin. All clinical adverse events (regardless of causality) occurring in >=2% of patients treated with pravastatin in these studies are identified in Table 2. Table 2: Adverse Events in >=2% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Long-Term Placebo-Controlled Trials Body System/Event Pravastatin (N=10,764) % of patients Placebo (N=10,719) % of patients Dermatologic Rash (including dermatitis) 7.2 7.1 General Edema 3 2.7 Fatigue 8.4 7.8 Chest Pain 10 9.8 Fever 2.1 1.9 Weight Gain 3.8 3.3 Weight Loss 3.3 2.8 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain 24.9 24.4 Muscle Cramp 5.1 4.6 Musculoskeletal Traumatism 10.2 9.6 Nervous System Dizziness 7.3 6.6 Sleep Disturbance 3 2.4 Anxiety/Nervousness 4.8 4.7 Paresthesia 3.2 3 Renal/Genitourinary Urinary Tract Infection 2.7 2.6 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 21.2 20.2 Cough 8.2 7.4 Influenza 9.2 9 Pulmonary Infection 3.8 3.5 Sinus Abnormality 7 6.7 Tracheobronchitis 3.4 3.1 Special Senses Vision Disturbance (includes blurred vision, diplopia) 3.4 3.3 Infections Viral Infection 3.2 2.9 In addition to the events listed above in the long-term trials table, events of probable, possible, or uncertain relationship to study drug that occurred in < 2% of pravastatin-treated patients in the long-term trials included the following: Dermatologic: scalp hair abnormality (including alopecia), urticaria. Endocrine/Metabolic: sexual dysfunction, libido change. General: flushing. Immunologic: allergy, edema head/neck. Musculoskeletal: muscle weakness. Nervous System: vertigo, insomnia, memory impairment, neuropathy (including peripheral neuropathy). Special Senses: taste disturbance. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the events reported above, as with other drugs in this class, the following events have been reported rarely during postmarketing experience with pravastatin sodium, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal: myopathy, rhabdomyolysis. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy associated with statin use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. Nervous System: dysfunction of certain cranial nerves (including alteration of taste, impairment of extraocular movement, facial paresis), peripheral nerve palsy. There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. These cognitive issues have been reported for all statins. The reports are generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks). Hypersensitivity: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematosus-like syndrome, polymyalgia rheumatica, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, purpura, hemolytic anemia, positive ANA, ESR increase, arthritis, arthralgia, asthenia, photosensitivity, chills, malaise, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, constipation, pancreatitis, hepatitis (including chronic active hepatitis), cholestatic jaundice, fatty change in liver, cirrhosis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, hepatoma, fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure. Dermatologic: a variety of skin changes (e.g., nodules, discoloration, dryness of mucous membranes, changes to hair/nails). Renal: urinary abnormality (including dysuria, frequency, nocturia). Respiratory: dyspnea. Reproductive: gynecomastia. Laboratory Abnormalities: liver function test abnormalities, thyroid function abnormalities. 6.3 Laboratory Test Abnormalities Increases in ALT, AST values and CPK have been observed [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1, 5.2) ]. Transient, asymptomatic eosinophilia has been reported. Eosinophil counts usually returned to normal despite continued therapy. Anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia have been reported with statins. 6.4 Pediatric Patients In a 2-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study involving 100 boys and 114 girls with HeFH (n=214; age range 8 to 18.5 years, 53% female, 95% Caucasians, <1% Blacks, 3% Asians, 1% Other), the safety and tolerability profile of pravastatin was generally similar to that of placebo. [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) .]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Pravastatin is generally well tolerated; adverse reactions have usually been mild and transient. In 4-month-long placebo-controlled trials, 1.7% of pravastatin-treated patients and 1.2% of placebo-treated patients were discontinued from treatment because of adverse experiences attributed to study drug therapy; this difference was not statistically significant. In short-term clinical trials, the most commonly reported adverse reactions (>=2% and > placebo) regardless of causality were: musculoskeletal pain, nausea/vomiting, upper respiratory infection, diarrhea, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Glenmark Generics Inc., USA at 1(888)721-7115 or www.glenmarkgenerics.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Adverse Clinical Events Short-Term Controlled Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 1313 patients (age range 20 to 76 years, 32.4% women, 93.5% Caucasians, 5% Blacks, 0.9% Hispanics, 0.4% Asians, 0.2% Others) with a median treatment duration of 14 weeks, 3.3% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 1.2% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. The most common adverse reactions that led to treatment discontinuation and occurred at an incidence greater than placebo were: liver function test increased, nausea, anxiety/depression, and dizziness. All adverse clinical events (regardless of causality) reported in >=2% of pravastatin-treated patients in placebo-controlled trials of up to 8 months duration are identified in Table 1: Table 1: Adverse Events in >=2% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 5 to 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Short-Term Placebo-Controlled Trials (% of Patients) Body System/Event 5 mg N=100 10 mg N=153 20 mg N=478 40 mg N=171 Any Dose N=902 Placebo N=411 Cardiovascular Angina Pectoris 5 4.6 4.8 3.5 4.5 3.4 Dermatologic Rash 3 2.6 6.7 1.2 4.5 1.4 Gastrointestinal Nausea/Vomiting 4 5.9 10.5 2.3 7.4 7.1 Diarrhea 8 8.5 6.5 4.7 6.7 5.6 Flatulence 2 3.3 4.6 0 3.2 4.4 Dyspepsia/Heartburn 0 3.3 3.6 0.6 2.5 2.7 Abdominal Distension 2 3.3 2.1 0.6 2 2.4 General Fatigue 4 1.3 5.2 0 3.4 3.9 Chest Pain 4 1.3 3.3 1.2 2.7 1.9 Influenza 4 2.6 1.9 0.6 2 0.7 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain 13 3.9 13.2 5.3 10.1 10.2 Myalgia 1 2.6 2.9 1.2 2.3 1.2 Nervous System Headache 5 6.5 7.5 3.5 6.3 4.6 Dizziness 4 1.3 5.2 0.6 3.5 3.4 Respiratory Pharyngitis 2 4.6 1.5 1.2 2 2.7 Upper Respiratory Infection 6 9.8 5.2 4.1 5.9 5.8 Rhinitis 7 5.2 3.8 1.2 3.9 4.9 Cough 4 1.3 3.1 1.2 2.5 1.7 Investigation ALT Increased 2 2 4 1.2 2.9 1.2 g-GT Increased 3 2.6 2.1 0.6 2 1.2 CPK Increased 5 1.3 5.2 2.9 4.1 3.6 The safety and tolerability of pravastatin sodium at a dose of 80 mg in 2 controlled trials with a mean exposure of 8.6 months was similar to that of pravastatin sodium at lower doses except that 4 out of 464 patients taking 80 mg of pravastatin had a single elevation of CK >10 times ULN compared to 0 out of 115 patients taking 40 mg of pravastatin. Long-Term Controlled Morbidity and Mortality Trials In the pravastatin sodium placebo-controlled clinical trials database of 21,483 patients (age range 24 to 75 years, 10.3% women, 52.3% Caucasians, 0.8% Blacks, 0.5% Hispanics, 0.1% Asians, 0.1% Others, 46.1% Not Recorded) with a median treatment duration of 261 weeks, 8.1% of patients on pravastatin sodium and 9.3% patients on placebo discontinued due to adverse events regardless of causality. Adverse event data were pooled from several double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (e.g., West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study [WOS]; Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary Arteries study [PLAC I]; Pravastatin, Lipids and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids study [PLAC II]; Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study [REGRESS]; and Kuopio Atherosclerosis Prevention Study [KAPS]) involving a total of 10,764 patients treated with pravastatin 40 mg and 10,719 patients treated with placebo. The safety and tolerability profile in the pravastatin group was comparable to that of the placebo group. Patients were exposed to pravastatin for a mean of 4.0 to 5.1 years in, among other trials, WOS, and 1.9 to 2.9 years in PLAC I, PLAC II, KAPS, and REGRESS. In these long-term trials, the most common reasons for discontinuation were mild, non-specific gastrointestinal complaints. Collectively, these trials represent 47,613 patient-years of exposure to pravastatin. All clinical adverse events (regardless of causality) occurring in >=2% of patients treated with pravastatin in these studies are identified in Table 2. Table 2: Adverse Events in >=2% of Patients Treated with Pravastatin 40 mg and at an Incidence Greater Than Placebo in Long-Term Placebo-Controlled Trials Body System/Event Pravastatin (N=10,764) % of patients Placebo (N=10,719) % of patients Dermatologic Rash (including dermatitis) 7.2 7.1 General Edema 3 2.7 Fatigue 8.4 7.8 Chest Pain 10 9.8 Fever 2.1 1.9 Weight Gain 3.8 3.3 Weight Loss 3.3 2.8 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Pain 24.9 24.4 Muscle Cramp 5.1 4.6 Musculoskeletal Traumatism 10.2 9.6 Nervous System Dizziness 7.3 6.6 Sleep Disturbance 3 2.4 Anxiety/Nervousness 4.8 4.7 Paresthesia 3.2 3 Renal/Genitourinary Urinary Tract Infection 2.7 2.6 Respiratory Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 21.2 20.2 Cough 8.2 7.4 Influenza 9.2 9 Pulmonary Infection 3.8 3.5 Sinus Abnormality 7 6.7 Tracheobronchitis 3.4 3.1 Special Senses Vision Disturbance (includes blurred vision, diplopia) 3.4 3.3 Infections Viral Infection 3.2 2.9 In addition to the events listed above in the long-term trials table, events of probable, possible, or uncertain relationship to study drug that occurred in < 2% of pravastatin-treated patients in the long-term trials included the following: Dermatologic: scalp hair abnormality (including alopecia), urticaria. Endocrine/Metabolic: sexual dysfunction, libido change. General: flushing. Immunologic: allergy, edema head/neck. Musculoskeletal: muscle weakness. Nervous System: vertigo, insomnia, memory impairment, neuropathy (including peripheral neuropathy). Special Senses: taste disturbance. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the events reported above, as with other drugs in this class, the following events have been reported rarely during postmarketing experience with pravastatin sodium, regardless of causality assessment: Musculoskeletal: myopathy, rhabdomyolysis. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy associated with statin use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Nervous System: dysfunction of certain cranial nerves (including alteration of taste, impairment of extraocular movement, facial paresis), peripheral nerve palsy. There have been rare postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use. These cognitive issues have been reported for all statins. The reports are generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks). Hypersensitivity: anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematosus-like syndrome, polymyalgia rheumatica, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, purpura, hemolytic anemia, positive ANA, ESR increase, arthritis, arthralgia, asthenia, photosensitivity, chills, malaise, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain, constipation, pancreatitis, hepatitis (including chronic active hepatitis), cholestatic jaundice, fatty change in liver, cirrhosis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, hepatoma, fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure. Dermatologic: a variety of skin changes (e.g., nodules, discoloration, dryness of mucous membranes, changes to hair/nails). Renal: urinary abnormality (including dysuria, frequency, nocturia). Respiratory: dyspnea. Reproductive: gynecomastia. Laboratory Abnormalities: liver function test abnormalities, thyroid function abnormalities. 6.3 Laboratory Test Abnormalities Increases in ALT, AST values and CPK have been observed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2)]. Transient, asymptomatic eosinophilia has been reported. Eosinophil counts usually returned to normal despite continued therapy. Anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia have been reported with statins. 6.4 Pediatric Patients In a 2-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study involving 100 boys and 114 girls with HeFH (n=214; age range 8 to 18.5 years, 53% female, 95% Caucasians, <1% Blacks, 3% Asians, 1% Other), the safety and tolerability profile of pravastatin was generally similar to that of placebo. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Use in Specific Populations (8.4), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions reported in clinical trials were increased mortality and need for renal replacement therapy in critically ill patients including sepsis. Most common adverse reactions (incidence >1%) are pruritus, elevated serum amylase, hemodilution (resulting in dilution of blood components, e.g., coagulation factors and other plasma proteins, and in a decrease in hematocrit). Anaphylactoid/hypersensitivity reactions can occur. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact B. Braun Medical Inc. at 1-800-227-2862 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile Serious adverse reactions reported in clinical trials include increased mortality and increased use of RRT in critically ill subjects including subjects with sepsis. The most common adverse reactions after administration of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection occurring in more than 1% of patients are: pruritus (itching; >1% to <10%), elevation of serum amylase (>1% to <10%; interference with the diagnosis of pancreatitis), and dilutional effects that may result in decreased levels of coagulation factors and other plasma proteins and in a decrease of hematocrit (>1% to <10%). Anaphylactoid reactions occur rarely in <0.1% after administration of hydroxyethyl starch solutions. Disturbances of blood coagulation beyond dilution effects can occur rarely in <0.1% depending on the dosage with the administration of hydroxyethyl starch solutions1. 6.2 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug or another patient population and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. During clinical development, a total of 899 subjects received the hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 drug substance at different concentrations (2%, 4%, 6%, or 10%) and at cumulative doses of several mL up to 66 L2. Of these 899 subjects, 602 were exposed to 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4. The mean duration of treatment with hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 was 3.7 \\302\\261 3.1 days, mean cumulative doses were 3185 \\302\\261 3498 mL, and the longest follow-up period was 90 days. In a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of subjects (N=100) undergoing elective orthopedic surgery, 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection (N=49) or hetastarch (6% hydroxyethyl starch in 0.9% sodium chloride injection; N=51) were administered for intraoperative volume replacement.3 Mean infusion volumes were 1613 \\302\\261 778 mL for 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection and 1584 \\302\\261 958 mL for hetastarch. Adverse reactions observed in at least 1% of subjects: In the orthopedic surgery trial conducted in the US, no significant differences in serious adverse reactions were noted overall between the two treatment arms. A possible relationship to 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection was reported in five cases among three subjects (aPTT elevated, PT prolonged, wound hemorrhage, anemia, pruritus); a possible relationship to hetastarch was reported in five subjects (three cases of coagulopathy; two cases of pruritus). The three coagulopathy cases in the hetastarch group were serious and occurred in subjects receiving more than the labeled ceiling dose (20 mL/kg), which is known to increase the risk of bleeding, whereas no serious coagulopathy occurred in the 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection group. Since calculated red blood cell loss for the two treatment arms was not statistically different (95% confidence interval included unity), the difference observed for Factor VIII (see Table 1, below) must be interpreted with caution. An exploratory analysis of total erythrocyte volume transfused (8.0 mL/kg vs. 13.8 mL/kg, 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection vs. hetastarch, respectively) also must be viewed with caution. Table 1: Safety Variables for the Orthopedic Surgery Trial conducted in the US Mean Ratio 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection/Hetastarch Variable 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection N=49 Hetastarch N=51 Estimate 95% CI Calculated red blood cell loss [L]* 1.17 1.31 0.910 [0.720; 1.141] Factor VIII [%]* 100.5 81.4 1.244 [1.000; 1.563] von Willebrand factor [%]Exploratory analyses 97.7 88.7 1.128 [0.991; 1.285] Fresh frozen plasma [mL] 72 144 0.723 [0.000; 2.437] A safety profile of 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection at least as favorable as for pentastarch was also demonstrated in studies where 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection was administered at doses higher (up to 50 mL/kg or 3 g/kg) than for pentastarch (up to 33 mL/kg or 2 g/kg) in clinical settings where large or repetitive doses were administered. Trials in critically ill adult subjects Three RCTs followed critically ill adult subjects treated with different HES products for 90 days. One trial using 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection in severe sepsis subjects (N=196) reported no difference in mortality (relative risk, 1.20; 95% CI, 0.83 to 1.74; p=0.33) and a trend for increased use of RRT (relative risk, 1.83; 95% CI, 0.93 to 3.59; p=0.06) in HES subjects4. Another trial using 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection in a heterogeneous population of critically ill subjects admitted to the ICU (N=7000) reported no difference in mortality (relative risk, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.96 to 1.18; p=0.26) but increased use of RRT (relative risk, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.45; p=0.04) in HES subjects.5 A third trial in severe sepsis subjects (N=804) using an HES product not licensed in the U.S. (HES 130/0.42) reported increased mortality (relative risk, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.36; p=0.03) and increased use of RRT (relative risk, 1.35; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.80; p=0.04) in HES subjects.6 6.3 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Among the very rarely occurring serious adverse drug reactions in patients treated with 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 in 0.9% sodium chloride injection, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid/hypersensitivity reactions or hypotension/shock/circulatory collapse were most frequently reported. The following adverse reactions have been identified and reported during the post-approval use of different HES products in critically ill adult patients, including patients with sepsis: Mortality Renal: use of RRT"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia There have been reports of the following types of reactions: -Allergic - anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema (6) -Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis (6) -CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety (6) -Ophthalmic: diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic : rash, erythema, pruritus CN S : headache: dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic : diplopia There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions (6): Allergic \\342\\200\\224 anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, periorbital and digital edema Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 rash, erythema, pruritus CNS \\342\\200\\224 headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic \\342\\200\\224 diplopia To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. -Hypervitaminosis A [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic : rash, erythema, pruritus CNS : headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic : diplopia There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: -Allergic \\342\\200\\224 anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, periorbital and digital edema (6) -Dermatologic \\342\\200\\224 rash, erythema, pruritus (6) -CNS \\342\\200\\224 headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety (6) -Ophthalmic \\342\\200\\224 diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100 or electronically at ProductComplaintsPP@hospira.com, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic reactions to thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of M.V.I.-Adult(TM). Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritus CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis, rash, erythema, pruritus, headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety, diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hospira, Inc. at 1-800-441-4100, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling. -Allergic reactions to thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of the vitamins in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis, rash, erythema, pruritis, headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety, diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are described in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section. Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Seizure Potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Interaction with Valproic Acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Caution with Intramuscular Administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Laboratory Tests [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Adults: The most common adverse reactions (>=5%) in patients treated with INVANZ, including those who were switched to therapy with an oral antimicrobial, were diarrhea, nausea, headache and infused vein complication. (6.1) In the prophylaxis indication the overall adverse experience profile was generally comparable to that observed for ertapenem in other clinical trials. (6.1) Pediatrics: Adverse reactions in this population were comparable to adults. The most common adverse reactions (>=5%) in pediatric patients treated with INVANZ, including those who were switched to therapy with an oral antimicrobial, were diarrhea, vomiting and infusion site pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., at 1-877-888-4231 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults Receiving INVANZ as a Treatment Regimen Clinical trials enrolled 1954 patients treated with INVANZ; in some of the clinical trials, parenteral therapy was followed by a switch to an appropriate oral antimicrobial [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Most adverse experiences reported in these clinical trials were described as mild to moderate in severity. INVANZ was discontinued due to adverse experiences in 4.7% of patients. Table 3 shows the incidence of adverse experiences reported in >=2.0% of patients in these trials. The most common drug-related adverse experiences in patients treated with INVANZ, including those who were switched to therapy with an oral antimicrobial, were diarrhea (5.5%), infused vein complication (3.7%), nausea (3.1%), headache (2.2%), and vaginitis in females (2.1%). Table 3: Incidence (%) of Adverse Experiences Reported During Study Therapy Plus 14-Day Follow-Up in >=2.0% of Adult Patients Treated With INVANZ in Clinical Trials INVANZIncludes Phase IIb/III Complicated intra-abdominal infections, Complicated skin and skin structure infections and Acute pelvic infections trials 1 g daily Piperacillin/ Tazobactam 3.375 g q6h INVANZIncludes Phase IIb/III Community acquired pneumonia and Complicated urinary tract infections, and Phase IIa trials 1 g daily Ceftriaxone 1 or 2 g daily Adverse Events (N=802) (N=774) (N=1152) (N=942) Local: Infused vein complication 7.1 7.9 5.4 6.7 Systemic: Death 2.5 1.6 1.3 1.6 Edema/swelling 3.4 2.5 2.9 3.3 Fever 5.0 6.6 2.3 3.4 Abdominal pain 3.6 4.8 4.3 3.9 Hypotension 2.0 1.4 1.0 1.2 Constipation 4.0 5.4 3.3 3.1 Diarrhea 10.3 12.1 9.2 9.8 Nausea 8.5 8.7 6.4 7.4 Vomiting 3.7 5.3 4.0 4.0 Altered mental status Includes agitation, confusion, disorientation, decreased mental acuity, changed mental status, somnolence, stupor 5.1 3.4 3.3 2.5 Dizziness 2.1 3.0 1.5 2.1 Headache 5.6 5.4 6.8 6.9 Insomnia 3.2 5.2 3.0 4.1 Dyspnea 2.6 1.8 1.0 2.4 Pruritus 2.0 2.6 1.0 1.9 Rash 2.5 3.1 2.3 1.5 Vaginitis 1.4 1.0 3.3 3.7 In patients treated for complicated intra-abdominal infections, death occurred in 4.7% (15/316) of patients receiving INVANZ and 2.6% (8/307) of patients receiving comparator drug. These deaths occurred in patients with significant co-morbidity and/or severe baseline infections. Deaths were considered unrelated to study drugs by investigators. In clinical trials, seizure was reported during study therapy plus 14-day follow-up period in 0.5% of patients treated with INVANZ, 0.3% of patients treated with piperacillin/tazobactam and 0% of patients treated with ceftriaxone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Additional adverse experiences that were reported with INVANZ with an incidence >0.1% within each body system are listed below Body as a Whole: abdominal distention, pain, chills, septicemia, septic shock, dehydration, gout, malaise, asthenia/fatigue, necrosis, candidiasis, weight loss, facial edema, injection site induration, injection site pain, extravasation, phlebitis/thrombophlebitis, flank pain, syncope Cardiovascular System: heart failure, hematoma, chest pain, hypertension, tachycardia, cardiac arrest, bradycardia, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, heart murmur, ventricular tachycardia, asystole, subdural hemorrhage Digestive System: acid regurgitation, oral candidiasis, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, anorexia, flatulence, C. difficile-associated diarrhea, stomatitis, dysphagia, hemorrhoids, ileus, cholelithiasis, duodenitis, esophagitis, gastritis, jaundice, mouth ulcer, pancreatitis, pyloric stenosis Musculoskeletal System: leg pain Nervous System & Psychiatric: anxiety, nervousness, seizure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], tremor, depression, hypesthesia, spasm, paresthesia, aggressive behavior, vertigo Respiratory System: cough, pharyngitis, rales/rhonchi, respiratory distress, pleural effusion, hypoxemia, bronchoconstriction, pharyngeal discomfort, epistaxis, pleuritic pain, asthma, hemoptysis, hiccups, voice disturbance Skin & Skin Appendage: erythema, sweating, dermatitis, desquamation, flushing, urticaria Special Senses: taste perversion Urogenital System: renal impairment, oliguria/anuria, vaginal pruritus, hematuria, urinary retention, bladder dysfunction, vaginal candidiasis, vulvovaginitis. In a clinical trial for the treatment of diabetic foot infections in which 289 adult diabetic patients were treated with INVANZ, the adverse experience profile was generally similar to that seen in previous clinical trials. Prophylaxis of Surgical Site Infection following Elective Colorectal Surgery In a clinical trial in adults for the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective colorectal surgery in which 476 patients received a 1 g dose of INVANZ 1 hour prior to surgery and were then followed for safety 14 days post surgery, the overall adverse experience profile was generally comparable to that observed for INVANZ in previous clinical trials. Table 4 shows the incidence of adverse experiences other than those previously described above for INVANZ that were reported regardless of causality in >=2.0% of patients in this trial. Table 4: Incidence (%) of Adverse Experiences Reported During Study Therapy Plus 14-Day Follow-Up in >=2.0% of Adult Patients Treated With INVANZ for Prophylaxis of Surgical Site Infections Following Elective Colorectal Surgery Adverse Events INVANZ 1 g (N = 476) Cefotetan 2 g (N = 476) Anemia 5.7 6.9 Small intestinal obstruction 2.1 1.9 Pneumonia 2.1 4.0 Postoperative infection 2.3 4.0 Urinary tract infection 3.8 5.5 Wound infection 6.5 12.4 Wound complication 2.9 2.3 Atelectasis 3.4 1.9 Additional adverse experiences that were reported in this prophylaxis trial with INVANZ, regardless of causality, with an incidence >0.5% within each body system are listed below: Gastrointestinal Disorders: C. difficile infection or colitis, dry mouth, hematochezia General Disorders and Administration Site Condition: crepitations Infections and Infestations: cellulitis, abdominal abscess, fungal rash, pelvic abscess Injury, Poisoning and Procedural Complications: incision site complication, incision site hemorrhage, intestinal stoma complication, anastomotic leak, seroma, wound dehiscence, wound secretion Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: muscle spasms Nervous System Disorders: cerebrovascular accident Renal and Urinary Disorders: dysuria, pollakiuria Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: crackles lung, lung infiltration, pulmonary congestion, pulmonary embolism, wheezing. Pediatric Patients Receiving INVANZ as a Treatment Regimen Clinical trials enrolled 384 patients treated with INVANZ; in some of the clinical trials, parenteral therapy was followed by a switch to an appropriate oral antimicrobial [see Clinical Studies (14)]. The overall adverse experience profile in pediatric patients is comparable to that in adult patients. Table 5 shows the incidence of adverse experiences reported in >=2.0% of pediatric patients in clinical trials. The most common drug-related adverse experiences in pediatric patients treated with INVANZ, including those who were switched to therapy with an oral antimicrobial, were diarrhea (6.5%), infusion site pain (5.5%), infusion site erythema (2.6%), vomiting (2.1%). Table 5: Incidence (%) of Adverse Experiences Reported During Study Therapy Plus 14-Day Follow-Up in >=2.0% of Pediatric Patients Treated With INVANZ in Clinical Trials INVANZIncludes Phase IIb Complicated skin and skin structure infections, Community acquired pneumonia and Complicated urinary tract infections trials in which patients 3 months to 12 years of age received INVANZ 15 mg/kg IV twice daily up to a maximum of 1 g or ceftriaxone 50 mg/kg/day IV in two divided doses up to a maximum of 2 g, and patients 13 to 17 years of age received INVANZ 1 g IV daily or ceftriaxone 50 mg/kg/day IV in a single daily dose. , Includes Phase IIb Acute pelvic infections and Complicated intra-abdominal infections trials in which patients 3 months to 12 years of age received INVANZ 15 mg/kg IV twice daily up to a maximum of 1 g and patients 13 to 17 years of age received INVANZ 1 g IV daily or ticarcillin/clavulanate 50 mg/kg for patients <60 kg or ticarcillin/clavulanate 3.0 g for patients >60 kg, 4 or 6 times a day. Ceftriaxone Ticarcillin/ Clavulanate Adverse Events (N=384) (N=100) (N=24) Local: Infusion Site Erythema 3.9 3.0 8.3 Infusion Site Pain 7.0 4.0 20.8 Systemic: Abdominal Pain 4.7 3.0 4.2 Constipation 2.3 0.0 0.0 Diarrhea 11.7 17.0 4.2 Loose Stools 2.1 0.0 0.0 Vomiting 10.2 11.0 8.3 Pyrexia 4.9 6.0 8.3 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 2.3 3.0 0.0 Headache 4.4 4.0 0.0 Cough 4.4 3.0 0.0 Diaper Dermatitis 4.7 4.0 0.0 Rash 2.9 2.0 8.3 Additional adverse experiences that were reported with INVANZ with an incidence >0.5% within each body system are listed below: Gastrointestinal Disorders: nausea General Disorders and Administration Site Condition: hypothermia, chest pain, upper abdominal pain; infusion site pruritus, induration, phlebitis, swelling, and warmth Infections and Infestations: candidiasis, oral candidiasis, viral pharyngitis, herpes simplex, ear infection, abdominal abscess Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: decreased appetite Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: arthralgia Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, somnolence Psychiatric Disorders: insomnia Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: genital rash Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: wheezing, nasopharyngitis, pleural effusion, rhinitis, rhinorrhea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: dermatitis, pruritus, rash erythematous, skin lesion Vascular Disorders: phlebitis. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during the post-approval use of INVANZ. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal Disorders: teeth staining Immune System Disorders: anaphylaxis including anaphylactoid reactions Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: muscular weakness Nervous System Disorders: coordination abnormal, depressed level of consciousness, dyskinesia, gait disturbance, myoclonus, tremor Psychiatric Disorders: altered mental status (including aggression, delirium), hallucinations Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS syndrome) 6.3 Adverse Laboratory Changes in Clinical Trials Adults Receiving INVANZ as Treatment Regimen Laboratory adverse experiences that were reported during therapy in >=2.0% of adult patients treated with INVANZ in clinical trials are presented in Table 6. Drug-related laboratory adverse experiences that were reported during therapy in >=2.0% of adult patients treated with INVANZ, including those who were switched to therapy with an oral antimicrobial, in clinical trials were ALT increased (6.0%), AST increased (5.2%), serum alkaline phosphatase increased (3.4%), and platelet count increased (2.8%). INVANZ was discontinued due to laboratory adverse experiences in 0.3% of patients. Table 6: IncidenceNumber of patients with laboratory adverse experiences/Number of patients with the laboratory test (%) of Laboratory Adverse Experiences Reported During Study Therapy Plus 14-Day Follow-Up in >=2.0% of Adult Patients Treated With INVANZ in Clinical Trials INVANZIncludes Phase IIb/III Complicated intra-abdominal infections, Complicated skin and skin structure infections and Acute pelvic infections trials 1 g daily Piperacillin/ Tazobactam 3.375 g q6h INVANZIncludes Phase IIb/III Community acquired pneumonia and Complicated urinary tract infections, and Phase IIa trials 1 g daily Ceftriaxone 1 or 2 g daily Adverse laboratory experiences (nNumber of patients with one or more laboratory tests=766) (n=755) (n=1122) (n=920) ALT increased 8.8 7.3 8.3 6.9 AST increased 8.4 8.3 7.1 6.5 Serum alkaline phosphatase increased 6.6 7.2 4.3 2.8 Eosinophils increased 1.1 1.1 2.1 1.8 Hematocrit decreased 3.0 2.9 3.4 2.4 Hemoglobin decreased 4.9 4.7 4.5 3.5 Platelet count increased 6.5 6.3 4.3 3.5 Urine RBCs increased 2.5 2.9 1.1 1.0 Urine WBCs increased 2.5 3.2 1.6 1.1 Additional laboratory adverse experiences that were reported during therapy in >0.1% of patients treated with INVANZ in clinical trials include: increases in serum creatinine, serum glucose, BUN, total, direct and indirect serum bilirubin, serum sodium and potassium, PT and PTT; decreases in serum potassium, serum albumin, WBC, platelet count, and segmented neutrophils. In a clinical trial for the treatment of diabetic foot infections in which 289 adult diabetic patients were treated with INVANZ, the laboratory adverse experience profile was generally similar to that seen in previous clinical trials. Prophylaxis of Surgical Site Infection following Elective Colorectal Surgery In a clinical trial in adults for the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective colorectal surgery in which 476 patients received a 1 g dose of INVANZ 1 hour prior to surgery and were then followed for safety 14 days post surgery, the overall laboratory adverse experience profile was generally comparable to that observed for INVANZ in previous clinical trials. Pediatric Patients Receiving INVANZ as a Treatment Regimen Laboratory adverse experiences that were reported during therapy in >=2.0% of pediatric patients treated with INVANZ in clinical trials are presented in Table 7. Drug-related laboratory adverse experiences that were reported during therapy in >=2.0% of pediatric patients treated with INVANZ, including those who were switched to therapy with an oral antimicrobial, in clinical trials were neutrophil count decreased (3.0%), ALT increased (2.2%), and AST increased (2.1%). Table 7: IncidenceNumber of patients with laboratory adverse experiences/Number of patients with the laboratory test; where at least 300 patients had the test (%) of Specific Laboratory Adverse Experiences Reported During Study Therapy Plus 14-Day Follow-Up in >=2.0% of Pediatric Patients Treated With INVANZ in Clinical Trials INVANZ Ceftriaxone Ticarcillin/ Clavulanate Adverse laboratory experiences (nNumber of patients with one or more laboratory tests=379) (n=97) (n=24) ALT Increased 3.8 1.1 4.3 AST Increased 3.8 1.1 4.3 Neutrophil Count Decreased 5.8 3.1 0.0 Additional laboratory adverse experiences that were reported during therapy in >0.5% of patients treated with INVANZ in clinical trials include: alkaline phosphatase increased, eosinophil count increased, platelet count increased, white blood cell count decreased and urine protein present."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling: Acute Interstitial Nephritis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Bone Fracture [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Hypomagnesemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Most common adverse reactions in adults (>2%) are pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection, and constipation (6.1). Most common adverse reactions in adolescents (>=2%) are headache, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eisai Inc. at 1-888-274-2378 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults The data described below reflect exposure to ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian, and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg per day of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >=2% of patients treated with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Less common adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials (<2% of patients treated with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric s In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets that occurred in >=2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >=2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of rabeprazole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium diffic i le -associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling: -Acute Interstitial Nephritis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 )] -Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] - Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Bone Fracture [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Hypomagnesemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Most common adverse reactions in adults (>= 2%) are pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection, and constipation (6.1). -Most common adverse reactions in adolescents (>= 2%) are headache, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults The data described below reflect exposure to rabeprazole delayed-release tablets in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers, and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18 to 89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian, and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg per day of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of patients treated with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets (n = 1064), and with a greater frequency than placebo (n = 89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Less common adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials (< 2% of patients treated with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatrics In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of rabeprazole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information. Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Fat Overload Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Refeeding Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Diabetes/Hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Thrombophlebitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hepatobiliary disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.15 ) ] Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Hypertriglyceridemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Aluminum toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] The most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, pyrexia, and increased blood triglycerides. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, Vigilance & Medical Affairs at 1-800-551-7176 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The clinical data described for PERIKABIVEN(R) reflects exposure in 93 patients exposed for 5 to 7 days in 4 active-controlled trials. The pooled population exposed to PERIKABIVEN(R) was 18 to 87 years old, 48% female, 73% Caucasian. The enrolled patients had varied underlying conditions such as gastrointestinal disorders (55%), vascular disorders (30%), metabolism and nutrition disorders (28%), respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders (22%), and psychiatric disorders (20%). Most patients received peripheral intravenous infusion doses of >=80% of their target mean daily exposure. Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN(R) are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions in >2% of Patients Treated with PERIKABIVEN(R) Adverse reaction PERIKABIVEN(R) N=93 (%) Hyperglycemia* 5 (5) Hypokalemia 4 (4) Pyrexia 4 (4) Blood triglycerides increased 3 (3) Phlebitis 2 (2) Nausea 2 (2) Pruritus 2 (2) Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 2 (2) Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 2 (2) Alanine aminotransferase increased 2 (2) Blood glucose increased* 2 (2) C-reactive protein increased 2 (2) Blood urea increased 2 (2) Hypoalbuminemia 2 (2) * Terms as reported in clinical studies Less common adverse reactions in <=1% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN were hyperkalemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypernatremia, tachycardia, hypertension, thrombophlebitis, vomiting, jaundice, rash and increased blood bilirubin. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PERIKABIVEN(R) in countries where it is registered. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal distension, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: chest tightness Hepatobiliary disorders: cholestasis Immune system disorders: allergic reaction, anaphylaxis Infections and infestations: infection Vascular disorders: flushed face",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions (greater than 5%) are arthralgia, back pain, and abdominal pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include: Hypocalcemia and Mineral Metabolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Anaphylactic Reaction[see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Renal Impairment[see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Tissue Damage Related to Inappropriate Drug Administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Osteonecrosis of the Jaw[see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Musculoskeletal Pain[see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures[see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Quarterly Intravenous Injection - In a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing ibandronate sodium injection administered intravenously as 3 mg every 3 months to ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily oral tablet in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis, the overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 8.0% in the ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily group and 7.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg once every 3 months group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 6.7% in the ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily group and 8.5% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg every 3 months group. Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in greater than 2% of patients. Table 1 Adverse Reactions With an Incidence of at Least 2% in Patients Treated with Ibandronate sodium injection (3 mg once every 3 months) or Ibandronate sodium Daily Oral Tablet (2.5 mg) * Combination of abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper  Combination of influenza-like illness and acute phase reaction \\342\\200\\241 Combination of rash, rash pruritic, rash macular, dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, exanthema, erythema, rash papular, rash generalized, dermatitis medicamentosa, rash erythematous Body System / Adverse Reaction Ibandronate sodium 2 . 5 mg Daily ( Oral ) % ( n = 465 ) Ibandronate sodium 3 mg every 3 months ( Intravenous ) % ( n = 469 ) Infections and Infestations Influenza Nasopharyngitis Cystitis Gastroenteritis Urinary Tract Infection Bronchitis Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 8 6 3 3 3 3 3 5 3 2 2 3 2 1 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Pain* Dyspepsia Nausea Constipation Diarrhea Gastritis 6 4 4 4 2 2 5 4 2 3 3 2 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia Back Pain Localized Osteoarthritis Pain in Extremity Myalgia 9 8 2 2 1 10 7 2 3 3 Nervous System Disorders Dizziness Headache 3 3 2 4 Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia Depression 3 2 1 1 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Influenza-like Illness Fatigue 1 1 5 3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 3 2 Acute Phase Reaction-like Events Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction (APR) have been reported with intravenous bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of patients with APR-like events was higher in the intravenous treatment group (4% in the ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group vs. 10% in the ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg once every 3 months group). These incidence rates are based upon reporting of any of 33 potential APR-like symptoms within 3 days of an intravenous dose and lasting 7 days or less. In most cases, no specific treatment was required and the symptoms subsided within 24 to 48 hours. Injection Site Reactions Local reactions at the injection site, such as redness or swelling, were observed at a higher incidence in patients treated with ibandronate sodium injection 3 mg every 3 months (1.7%; 8/469) than in patients treated with placebo injections (0.2%; 1/465). In most cases, the reaction was of mild to moderate severity. Daily Oral Tablet - The safety of ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg once daily in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in 3577 patients aged 41 to 82 years. The duration of the trials was 2 to 3 years, with 1134 patients exposed to placebo and 1140 exposed to ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All patients received 500 mg calcium plus 400 international units vitamin D supplementation daily. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 1% in the placebo group and 1.2% in the ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily group. The incidence of serious adverse reactions was 20% in the placebo group and 23% in the ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse reactions was approximately 17% in both the placebo group and the ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily oral tablet group. Table 2 lists adverse reactions from the Treatment and Prevention Studies reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients and in more patients treated with ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily oral tablet than patients treated with placebo. Table 2 Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence greater than or equal to 2% and in More Patients Treated with ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg Daily Oral Tablet than in Patients Treated with Placebo in the Osteoporosis Treatment and Prevention Studies Body System Placebo % ( n = 1134 ) Ibandronate sodium2 . 5 mg daily % ( n = 1140 ) Body as a Whole Back Pain Pain in Extremity Asthenia Allergic Reaction 12 6 2 2 14 8 4 3 Digestive System Dyspepsia Diarrhea Tooth Disorder Vomiting Gastritis 10 5 2 2 2 12 7 4 3 2 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia Joint Disorder Arthritis 5 3 3 6 4 3 Nervous System Headache Dizziness Vertigo 6 3 3 7 4 3 Respiratory System Upper Respiratory Infection Bronchitis Pneumonia Pharyngitis 33 7 4 2 34 10 6 3 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 4 6 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected gastrointestinal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily groups were: dyspepsia (10% vs. 12%), diarrhea (5% vs. 7%), and abdominal pain (5% vs. 6%). Musculoskeletal Adverse Reactions The incidence of selected musculoskeletal adverse reactions in the placebo and ibandronate sodium 2.5 mg daily groups were: back pain (12% vs. 14%), arthralgia (14% vs. 14%) and myalgia (5% vs. 6%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of ibandronate sodium injection. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis with fatalities, angioedema, asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and dermatitis bullous [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Hypocalcemia: Hypocalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Renal Toxicity: Acute renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: Osteonecrosis of the jaw [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Musculoskeletal Pain: Bone, joint, or muscle pain (musculoskeletal pain), described as severe or incapacitating [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Atypical Femoral Shaft Fracture: Atypical, low-energy, or low-trauma fractures of the femoral shaft [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Eye Inflammation: Iritis and uveitis. In some cases with other bisphosphonates, these events did not resolve until the bisphosphonate was discontinued."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The serious adverse events reported in clinical trials are increased mortality and renal replacement therapy renal in critically ill patients. Most common adverse reactions are hypersensitivity, coagulopathy, hemodilution, circulatory overload and metabolic acidosis. The serious adverse events reported in clinical trials are Increased mortality and renal replacement therapy in critically ill patients (6.1) Most common adverse reactions are hypersensitivity, coagulopathy, hemodilution, circulatory overload and metabolic acidosis. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact B. Braun Medical Inc. at 1-800-227-2862 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Three randomized controlled trials (RCTs) followed critically ill adult patients treated with different HES products for 90 days. One trial (N=804) in severe sepsis patients using HES product (not approved in the U.S.) reported increased mortality (relative risk, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.36; p=0.03) and RRT (relative risk, 1.35; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.80; p=0.04) in the HES treatment arm.4 Another trial (N=196) using different HES in severe sepsis patients reported no difference in mortality (relative risk,1.20; 95% CI, 0.83 to 1.74; p=0.33) and a trend for RRT (relative risk, 1.83; 95% CI, 0.93 to 3.59; p=0.06) in HES patients.5 A third trial (N=7000) using different HES in a heterogeneous patient population consisting of critically ill adult patients admitted to the ICU reported no difference in mortality (relative risk, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.96 to 1.18; p=0.26) but increased use of RRT (relative risk, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.45; p=0.04) in HES patients.6 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency of these reactions or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. The following adverse reactions have been identified and reported during the post-approval use of HES products: Mortality Renal need for renal replacement therapy Hypersensitivity reactions including death, life-threatening anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, cardiac arrest, ventricular fibrillation, severe hypotension, non-cardiac pulmonary edema, laryngeal edema, bronchospasm, angioedema, wheezing, restlessness, tachypnea, stridor, fever, chest pain, bradycardia, tachycardia, shortness of breath, chills, urticaria, pruritus, facial and periorbital edema, coughing, sneezing, flushing, erythema multiforme, and rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Cardiovascular reactions including circulatory overload, congestive heart failure, and pulmonary edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Hematologic reactions including intracranial bleeding, bleeding and/or anemia due to hemodilution [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] and/or Factor Vlll deficiency, acquired von Willebrand's-like syndrome, and coagulopathy including rare cases of disseminated intravascular coagulopathy and hemolysis. Metabolic reactions including metabolic acidosis. Other reactions including vomiting, peripheral edema of the lower extremities, submaxillary and parotid glandular enlargement, mild influenza-like symptoms, headaches, and muscle pains. Hydroxyethyl starch-associated pruritus has been reported in some patients with deposits of hydroxyethyl starch in peripheral nerves."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1) In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >= 5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to rabeprazole in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18 to 89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of rabeprazole. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of rabeprazole patients (n = 1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n = 89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of rabeprazole, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of rabeprazole treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to rabeprazole that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of rabeprazole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1). In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AvKARE, Inc at 1-855-361-3993 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in \\302\\263 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablet patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations, bone fractures, hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact AvKARE, Inc. at 1-855-361-3993; email drugsafety@avkare.com ; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch ."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1). In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Lannett Company, Inc. at 1-844-834-0530 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in \\302\\263 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablet patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. -In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection, and constipation (6.1) -In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >= 5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea, and headache (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to rabeprazole in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers, and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18 to 89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian, and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg, or 40 mg/day of rabeprazole. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of rabeprazole patients (n = 1064), and with a greater frequency than placebo (n = 89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of rabeprazole, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of rabeprazole-treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to rabeprazole that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of rabeprazole. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. - In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1). - In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact UCB, Inc. at 1-866-822-0068 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in \\302\\263 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablet patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions that were seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations, bone fractures, hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation ( ). 6.1 In studies of adolescent patients (ages 12 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache ( ). 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact UCB, Inc. at 1-866-822-0068 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in \\302\\263 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablet patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions that were seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, section. Adverse Reactions Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations, bone fractures, hypomagnesemia and associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported. Clostridium difficile"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation (6.1). In studies of pediatric and adolescent patients (ages 1 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eisai Inc. at 1-888-274-2378 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to ACIPHEX in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of ACIPHEX. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >=2% of ACIPHEX patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months and at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of ACIPHEX, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>=2% of ACIPHEX treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section. Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to ACIPHEX that occurred in >=2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >=2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. In a two-part, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, parallel-group study, 127 pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age with endoscopically proven GERD received either 5 mg or 10 mg (<15 kg body weight) or 10 mg or 20 mg (>15 kg body weight) rabeprazole. In this study, some patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 36 weeks. Adverse reactions that occurred in >5% of patients included abdominal pain (5%), diarrhea (5%), and headache (5%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in trials of adolescents and adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of ACIPHEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), adverse reactions that occurred at a rate greater than 2% and greater than placebo included pain, pharyngitis, flatulence, infection and constipation ( ). 6.1 In studies of pediatric and adolescent patients (ages 1 to 16 years, and up to 36 weeks exposure) adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of >=5% of patients included abdominal pain, diarrhea and headache ( ). 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eisai Inc. at 1-888-274-2378 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Adults The data described below reflect exposure to ACIPHEX in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male: 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of ACIPHEX. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >=2% of ACIPHEX patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). Three long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 adult patients; at least 54% of adult patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 adult patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of ACIPHEX, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies in adults was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials, which do not meet the above criteria (>=2% of ACIPHEX treated patients and greater than placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole, include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, section. Adverse Reactions Pediatric In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to ACIPHEX that occurred in >=2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >=2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults. In a two-part, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, parallel-group study, 127 pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age with endoscopically proven GERD received either 5 mg or 10 mg (<15 kg body weight) or 10 mg or 20 mg (>=15 kg body weight) rabeprazole. In this study, some patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 36 weeks. Adverse reactions that occurred in >=5% of patients included abdominal pain (5%), diarrhea (5%), and headache (5%). There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in trials of adolescents and adults. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of ACIPHEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures; hypomagnesemia and associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported. Clostridium difficile"$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), there are no adverse reactions that occur at a rate greater than 5% and greater than placebo (6.1) In the adolescent patient studies, adverse reactions were similar to those found in adults (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eisai Inc. at 1-888-274-2378 (fax 1-201-746-3207) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1. Clinical Studies Experience The data described below reflect exposure to ACIPHEX in 1064 patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male/ 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of ACIPHEX. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of ACIPHEX patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). The 3 long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 patients; at least 54% of patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of ACIPHEX, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions that were seen in controlled clinical trials which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of ACIPHEX treated patients and > placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to ACIHPEX that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, ADVERSE REACTIONS section. 6.2. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ACIPHEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations: bone fractures and hypomagnesemia. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), there are no adverse reactions that occur at a rate greater than 5% and greater than placebo (6.1) In the adolescent patient studies, adverse reactions were similar to those found in adults (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eisai Inc. at 1-888-274-2378 (fax 1-201-746-3207) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience The data described below reflect exposure to ACIPHEX in 1064 patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male/ 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of ACIPHEX. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of ACIPHEX patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). The 3 long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 patients; at least 54% of patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of ACIPHEX, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions that were seen in controlled clinical trials which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of ACIPHEX treated patients and > placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to ACIPHEX that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, ADVERSE REACTIONS section. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ACIPHEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures and hypomagnesemia. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), there are no adverse reactions that occur at a rate greater than 5% and greater than placebo (6.1) In the adolescent patient studies, adverse reactions were similar to those found in adults (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eisai Inc. at 1-888-274-2378 (fax 1-201-746-3207) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience The data described below reflect exposure to ACIPHEX in 1064 patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male/ 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of ACIPHEX. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of ACIPHEX patients (n=1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). The 3 long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 patients; at least 54% of patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of ACIPHEX, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies. Other adverse reactions that were seen in controlled clinical trials which do not meet the above criteria (>= 2% of ACIPHEX treated patients and > placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to ACIPHEX that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, ADVERSE REACTIONS section. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ACIPHEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma, hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; TSH elevations; bone fractures, hypomagnesemia and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Worldwide, over 2900 patients have been treated with rabeprazole in Phase II-III clinical trials involving various dosages and durations of treatment. Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the adult studies (4 to 8 weeks), there are no adverse reactions that occur at a rate greater than 5% and greater than placebo ( 6.1 ) In the adolescent patient studies, adverse reactions were similar to those found in adults ( 6.1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eisai Inc. at 1-888-274-2378 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience The data described below reflect exposure to ACIPHEX in 1064 patients exposed for up to 8 weeks. The studies were primarily placebo- and active-controlled trials in patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers. The population had a mean age of 53 years (range 18-89 years) and had a ratio of approximately 60% male/ 40% female. The racial distribution was 86% Caucasian, 8% African American, 2% Asian and 5% other. Most patients received either 10 mg, 20 mg or 40 mg/day of ACIPHEX. An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in >= 2% of ACIPHEX patients (n= 1064) and with a greater frequency than placebo (n=89) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials, revealed the following adverse reactions: pain (3% vs. 1%), pharyngitis (3% vs. 2%), flatulence (3% vs. 1%), infection (2% vs. 1%), and constipation (2% vs. 1%). The 3 long-term maintenance studies consisted of a total of 740 patients; at least 54% of patients were exposed to rabeprazole for 6 months while at least 33% were exposed for 12 months. Of the 740 patients, 247 (33%) and 241 (33%) patients received 10 mg and 20 mg of ACIPHEX, respectively, while 169 (23%) patients received placebo and 83 (11%) received omeprazole. The safety profile of rabeprazole in the maintenance studies was consistent with what was observed in the acute studies Other adverse events that were seen in controlled clinical trials which do not meet the above criteria (>=2% of ACIPHEX treated patients and > placebo) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole include the following: headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, dizziness, peripheral edema, hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy, myalgia, and arthralgia. In a multicenter, open-label study of adolescent patients aged 12 to 16 years with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD, the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults. The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to ACIPHEX that occurred in >= 2% of 111 patients were headache (9.9%), diarrhea (4.5%), nausea (4.5%), vomiting (3.6%), and abdominal pain (3.6%). The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in >= 2% of patients were headache (5.4%) and nausea (1.8%). There were no adverse reactions reported in these studies that were not previously observed in adults. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin: In clinical trials using combination therapy with rabeprazole plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin (RAC), no adverse reactions unique to this drug combination were observed. In the U.S. multicenter study, the most frequently reported drug related adverse reactions for patients who received RAC therapy for 7 or 10 days were diarrhea (8% and 7%) and taste perversion (6% and 10%), respectively. No clinically significant laboratory abnormalities particular to the drug combinations were observed. For more information on adverse reactions or laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their respective package prescribing information, ADVERSE REACTIONS section. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of ACIPHEX. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: sudden death; coma and hyperammonemia; jaundice; rhabdomyolysis; disorientation and delirium; anaphylaxis; angioedema; bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin; severe dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; interstitial pneumonia; interstitial nephritis; and TSH elevations. In addition, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported. Increases in prothrombin time/INR in patients treated with concomitant warfarin have been reported."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Melphalan/Prednisolone Intravenous ibandronate (6 mg) did not interact with intravenous melphalan (10 mg/m2) or oral prednisolone (60 mg/m2). [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.2 Tamoxifen There was no interaction between oral 30 mg tamoxifen and intravenous 2 mg ibandronate. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.3 Bone Imaging Agents Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone-imaging agents. Specific studies with BONIVA have not been performed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Melphalan/Prednisolone Intravenous ibandronate (6 mg) did not interact with intravenous melphalan (10 mg/m2) or oral prednisolone (60 mg/m2). [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.2 Tamoxifen There was no interaction between oral 30 mg tamoxifen and intravenous 2 mg ibandronate. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.3 Bone Imaging Agents Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone-imaging agents. Specific studies with ibandronate have not been performed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Melphalan/Prednisolone Intravenous ibandronate (6 mg) did not interact with intravenous melphalan (10 mg/m2) or oral prednisolone (60 mg/m2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Tamoxifen There was no interaction between oral 30 mg tamoxifen and intravenous 2 mg ibandronate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Bone Imaging Agents Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone-imaging agents. Specific studies with ibandronate sodium have not been performed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Melphalan/Prednisolone Intravenous ibandronate (6 mg) did not interact with intravenous melphalan (10 mg/m2) or oral prednisolone (60 mg/m2). [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.2 Tamoxifen There was no interaction between oral 30 mg tamoxifen and intravenous 2 mg ibandronate. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.3 Bone Imaging Agents Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone-imaging agents. Specific studies with ibandronate sodium have not been performed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Melphalan/Prednisolone Intravenous ibandronate (6 mg) did not interact with intravenous melphalan (10 mg/m2) or oral prednisolone (60 mg/m2). [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.2 Tamoxifen There was no interaction between oral 30 mg tamoxifen and intravenous 2 mg ibandronate. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] 7.3 Bone Imaging Agents Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone-imaging agents. Specific studies with ibandronate sodium injection have not been performed."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of drug interactions between vitamins and other drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities (7.1): Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin Clinical Interactions : Phenytoin (7.1) Levodopa (7.1) Chloramphenicol (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Drug Levels Folic acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Low serum concentration of phenytoin may result in increased seizure frequency. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of drug interactions between vitamins and other drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities: -Acetazolamide (2.4) -Intravenous chlorothiazide sodium (2.4) -Aminophylline (2.4) -Ampicillin (2.4) -Moderately alkaline solutions (2.4) -Calcium salts such as calcium gluconate (2.4) -Vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite (2.4) -Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) -Bleomycin (7.1) Clinical Interactions: -Phenytoin (7.1) -Levodopa (7.1) -Chloramphenicol (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Drug Levels Folic acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Low serum concentration of phenytoin may result in increased seizure frequency. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities: -Acetazolamide (2.4) -Intravenous chlorothiazide sodium (2.4) -Aminophylline (2.4) -Ampicillin (2.4) -Moderately alkaline solutions (2.4) -Tetracycline HCl (2.4) -Calcium salts such as calcium gluconate (2.4) -Vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite (2.4) Clinical interactions affecting levels of co-administered drugs -Antibiotics - Activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin decreases by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid and riboflavin also reduces the activity of bleomycin (7.1) -Levodopa exposure may decrease by pyridoxine. Levodopa efficacy may decline (7.1) -Phenytoin exposure may decrease by folic acid increasing the risk of seizure activity (7.1) Clinical interactions affecting vitamin levels -Chloramphenicol may inhibit hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy in pernicious anemia patients (7.2) -Phenytoin may decrease folic acid concentrations; therefore, coadministration should be avoided in pregnancy (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Levels of Co-administered Drugs Folic Acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Folic acid may lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these types of interactions: Effect of M.V.I.-Adult on other drugs: - Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) - Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin (7.1) - Levodopa: Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease (7.1) - Phenytoin: Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase the risk of seizure activity (7.1) - Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate (7.1) Effects of other drugs on M.V.I.-Adult: - Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements (7.2) - Phenytoin: May decrease folic acid concentrations (7.2) 7.1 Effect of M.V.I.-Adult on Other Drugs Phenytoin: Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate therapy. Levodopa: Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa (decrease blood level of levodopa) and decrease its efficacy. Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro, thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced. 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on M.V.I.-Adult Hydralazine or Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. Chloramphenicol: In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin: Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration with probenecid inhibits the renal excretion of ertapenem and is therefore not recommended. (7.1) The concomitant use of ertapenem and valproic acid/divalproex sodium is generally not recommended. Anti-bacterials other than carbapenems should be considered to treat infections in patients whose seizures are well controlled on valproic acid or divalproex sodium. (5.2, 7.2) 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid interferes with the active tubular secretion of ertapenem, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of ertapenem [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Co-administration of probenecid with ertapenem is not recommended. 7.2 Valproic Acid Case reports in the literature have shown that co-administration of carbapenems, including ertapenem, to patients receiving valproic acid or divalproex sodium results in a reduction of valproic acid concentrations. The valproic acid concentrations may drop below the therapeutic range as a result of this interaction, therefore increasing the risk of breakthrough seizures. Although the mechanism of this interaction is unknown, data from in vitro and animal studies suggest that carbapenems may inhibit the hydrolysis of valproic acid's glucuronide metabolite (VPA-g) back to valproic acid, thus decreasing the serum concentrations of valproic acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives, including warfarin: Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted; monitor laboratory parameters. (7.1) 7.1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in PERIKABIVEN(R) has vitamin K1. Vitamin K1 can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin or coumarin derivatives, which work by blocking recycling of vitamin K1. Monitoring for anticoagulant activity is recommended in patients who are on both PERIKABIVEN(R) and coumarin or coumarin derivatives.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions Affecting Co-administered Drugs: - Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) - Bleomycin : Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin (7.1) - Levodopa: Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease (7.1) - Phenytoin: Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase risk of seizure activity (7.1) - Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate (7.1) Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels: - Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements (7.2). - Phenytoin: May decrease folic acid concentrations (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions Affecting Co-administered Drugs A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these types of interactions: Warfarin: Vitamin K, a component of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin. In patients who are co-administered warfarin and INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro, thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced. Levodopa: Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa (decrease blood levels of levodopa) and decrease its efficacy. Phenytoin: Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate therapy. 7.2 Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. Phenytoin: Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Enter section text here Increase INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored ( 7.2 ) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro ( 7.3 ) ACIPHEX inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) ( 7.4 ) ACIPHEX may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Drugs metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death.{See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.5 )}. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds dependent on gastric pH for absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin.{See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Combined Administration with Antimicrobials ( 12.3 )}. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with pimozide and cisapride is contraindicated. (See PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for clarithromycin.) (See PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for amoxicillin.)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS For the concurrent therapy of either cyclosporine, fibrates, niacin (nicotinic acid), or erythromycin, the risk of myopathy increases [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies: use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (>=1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with pravastatin. (7) Cyclosporine:combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily.(2.5,7.1) Clarithromycin: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily.(2.6,7.2) 7.1 Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of cyclosporine. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily for concomitant use with cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Clarithromycin The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily for concomitant use with clarithromycin [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Colchicine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of colchicine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.4 Gemfibrozil Due to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are coadministered with gemfibrozil, concomitant administration of pravastatin sodium with gemfibrozil should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. 7.5 Other Fibrates Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of other fibrates, pravastatin sodium should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with other fibrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )]. 7.6 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when pravastatin is used in combination with niacin; a reduction in pravastatin sodium dosage should be considered in this setting [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS For the concurrent therapy of either cyclosporine, fibrates, niacin (nicotinic acid), or erythromycin, the risk of myopathy increases [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies: use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (>=1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with pravastatin sodium. (7) Cyclosporine:combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily.(2.5, 7.1) Clarithromycin: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily.(2.6, 7.2) 7.1 Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of cyclosporine. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily for concomitant use with cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Clarithromycin The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily for concomitant use with clarithromycin [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Colchicine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of colchicine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.4 Gemfibrozil Due to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are coadministered with gemfibrozil, concomitant administration of pravastatin sodium with gemfibrozil should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. 7.5 Other Fibrates Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of other fibrates, pravastatin sodium should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with other fibrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )]. 7.6 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when pravastatin is used in combination with niacin; a reduction in pravastatin sodium dosage should be considered in this setting [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS For the concurrent therapy of either cyclosporine, fibrates, niacin (nicotinic acid), or erythromycin, the risk of myopathy increases [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies: use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (>=1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with pravastatin sodium. ( 7) Cyclosporine: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily. ( 2.5, 7.1) Clarithromycin: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.6, 7.2) 7.1 Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of cyclosporine. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily for concomitant use with cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. 7.2 Clarithromycin The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily for concomitant use with clarithromycin [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. 7.3 Colchicine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of colchicine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. 7.4 Gemfibrozil Due to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are coadministered with gemfibrozil, concomitant administration of pravastatin sodium with gemfibrozil should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. 7.5 Other Fibrates Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of other fibrates, pravastatin sodium should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with other fibrates [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. 7.6 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when pravastatin is used in combination with niacin; a reduction in pravastatin sodium dosage should be considered in this setting [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS For the concurrent therapy of either cyclosporine, fibrates, niacin (nicotinic acid), or erythromycin, the risk of myopathy increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. -Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies: use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (>=1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with pravastatin sodium. (7) -Cyclosporine: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily. (2.5, 7.1) -Clarithromycin: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily. (2.6, 7.2) 7.1 Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of cyclosporine. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily for concomitant use with cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Clarithromycin The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily for concomitant use with clarithromycin [see Dosage and Administration (2.6), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Colchicine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of colchicine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.4 Gemfibrozil Due to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are coadministered with gemfibrozil, concomitant administration of pravastatin sodium with gemfibrozil should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.5 Other Fibrates Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of other fibrates, pravastatin sodium should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with other fibrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.6 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when pravastatin is used in combination with niacin; a reduction in pravastatin sodium dosage should be considered in this setting [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS HESPAN(R) should be used with caution in patients who have been anticoagulated with other drugs that negatively influence the coagulation system. The safety and compatibility of other additives have not been established. Use with caution with drugs that negatively influence the coagulation system. (7) The safety and compatibility of other additives have not been established. (7)"$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) ACIPHEX inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) ACIPHEX may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) 7.1. Drugs metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2. Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death.{See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)}. 7.3. Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4. Compounds dependent on gastric pH for absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5. Drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6. Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin. {See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Combination Therapy with Antimicrobials (12.3)}. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with pimozide and cisapride is contraindicated. (See PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for clarithromycin.) (See PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for amoxicillin.)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored ( ) 7.2 Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism ( ) in vitro 7.3 ACIPHEX inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) ( ) 7.4 ACIPHEX may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir ( ) 7.4 Methotrexate: ACIPHEX may increase serum level of methotrexate ( ) 7.7 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [ ]. see Warnings and Precautions ( ) 5.2 7.3 Cyclosporine incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the C in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. In vitro 50 max 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and C for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. max Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [ ]. see Clinical Pharmacology ( ) 12.3 Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [ ]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [ ] [ ]. see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ ]. see Warnings and Precautions ( ) 5.6 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [ ]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of ACIPHEX. see Clinical Pharmacology ( ) 12.3"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) ACIPHEX inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) ACIPHEX may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: ACIPHEX may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of ACIPHEX."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) Aciphex inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) Aciphex may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: Aciphex may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death.{See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)}. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds dependent on gastric pH for absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin. {See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Combination Therapy with Antimicrobials (12.3)}. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [See Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [See Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) Aciphex inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) Aciphex may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: Aciphex may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death.{See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)}. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds dependent on gastric pH for absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin. {See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Combination Therapy with Antimicrobials (12.3)}. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with pimozide and cisapride is contraindicated. (See PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for clarithromycin.) (See PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for amoxicillin.) 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) Rabeprazole inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) Rabeprazole may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: Rabeprazole may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, coadministration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Coadministration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Coadministration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n = 6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration With Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for coadministration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of rabeprazole."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2). -Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3). -Rabeprazole inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts, digoxin, and mycophenolate mofetil) (7.4). -Rabeprazole may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4). -Methotrexate: Rabeprazole may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7). 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Due to its effects on gastric acid secretion, rabeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of their bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, atazanavir, iron salts, erlotinib, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with rabeprazole. Concomitant treatment with rabeprazole (20 mg daily) and ketoconazole in healthy subjects decreased the bioavailability of ketoconazole by 30% and increased the AUC and Cmax for digoxin by 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Coadministration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and PPIs is not recommended. Coadministration of atazanavir with PPIs is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. Coadministration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PPIs and MMF. Use rabeprazole with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n = 6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration With Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for coadministration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of rabeprazole."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored ( ) 7.2 Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism ( ) in vitro 7.3 Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) ( ) 7.4 Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir ( ) 7.4 Methotrexate: Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may increase serum level of methotrexate ( ) 7.7 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [ ]. see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) 7.3 Cyclosporine incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the C in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. In vitro 50 max 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and C for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. max Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [ ]. see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [ ]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [ ] [ ]. see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; ) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ ]. see methotrexate prescribing information see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [ ]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Due to its effects on gastric acid secretion, rabeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of their bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, atazanavir, iron salts, erlotinib, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. 50 max Concomitant treatment with rabeprazole (20 mg daily) and ketoconazole in healthy subjects decreased the bioavailability of ketoconazole by 30% and increased the AUC and C for digoxin by 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and PPIs is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with PPIs is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. Co-administration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PPIs and MMF. Use Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) -Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) -Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) -Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) -Methotrexate: Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin, and mycophenolate mofetil) (7.4) Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Due to its effects on gastric acid secretion, rabeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of their bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, atazanavir, iron salts, erlotinib, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. Concomitant treatment with rabeprazole (20 mg daily) and ketoconazole in healthy subjects decreased the bioavailability of ketoconazole by 30% and increased the AUC and Cmax for digoxin by 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and PPIs is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with PPIs is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. Co-administration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PPIs and MMF. Use Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [seeWarnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS -Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) -Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) -Rabeprazole sodium inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) -Rabeprazole sodium may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) -Methotrexate: Rabeprazole sodium may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of rabeprazole sodium."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) Rabeprazole sodium inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) Rabeprazole sodium may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: Rabeprazole sodium may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of rabeprazole sodium."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored (7.2) Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro (7.3) Rabeprazole sodium inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) (7.4) Rabeprazole sodium may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir (7.4) Methotrexate: Rabeprazole sodium may increase serum level of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)] 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and Cmax for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see CONTRAINDICATIONS in prescribing information for clarithromycin] [see DRUG INTERACTIONS in prescribing information for amoxicillin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted. [See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.6)] 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of rabeprazole sodium."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 2: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with ACIPHEX Delayed-Release Tablets Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPI on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may increase toxicity. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with rabeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine -containing products: Concomitant use with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. See prescribing information. Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range. See prescribing information for warfarin. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of rabeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets may be considered in some patients receiving high dose methotrexate administration. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. Dose adjustment of digoxin may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for digoxin. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., ir on salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenol ate mofetil, ketoconazole , itraconazole ) Clinical Impact: Rabeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PPIs and MMF. Use ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated . Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions (7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 2: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Coadministered With Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPI on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. -Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. -Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may increase toxicity. -There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with rabeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. See prescribing information. Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range. See prescribing information for warfarin. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of rabeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolic hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered in some patients receiving high dose methotrexate administration. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. Dose adjustment of digoxin may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for digoxin. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole, itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Rabeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Coadministration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PPIs and MMF. Use rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions (7)."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The safety and compatibility of other additives have not been established. No interactions with other drugs or nutritional products are known. (7) The safety and compatibility of additives have not been established. (7)"$$
"Adverse Events Adverse Event Reporting: www.fda.gov/medwatch or 1-800-FDA-1088"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R) Fe+. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/antibacterial combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the antibacterial component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the antibacterial ingredient are allergic sensitizations. Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias (see WARNINGS ). Sulfacetamide sodium may cause local irritation. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, and delayed wound healing. Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon, there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical corticosteroids. Corticosteroid-containing preparations can also cause acute anterior uveitis or perforation of the globe. Mydriaisis, loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antibacterials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistant corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/antibacterial combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the antibacterial component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the antibacterial ingredient are allergic sensitizations. Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias (see WARNINGS). Sulfacetamide sodium may cause local irritation. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, and delayed wound healing. Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon, there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical corticosteroids. Corticosteroid-containing preparations can also cause acute anterior uveitis or perforation of the globe. Mydriaisis, loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antibacterials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistant corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/antibacterial combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the antibacterial component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the antibacterial ingredient are allergic sensitizations. Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias (see WARNINGS). Sulfacetamide sodium may cause local irritation. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, and delayed wound healing. Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon, there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical corticosteroids. Corticosteroid-containing preparations can also cause acute anterior uveitis or perforation of the globe. Mydriasis, loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antibacterials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with corticosteroid/antibacterial combination drugs which can be attributed to the corticosteroid component, the antibacterial component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available. Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the antibacterial ingredient are allergic sensitizations. Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias (See WARNINGS ). Sulfacetamide sodium may cause local irritation. The reactions due to the corticosteroid component in decreasing order of frequency are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, and delayed wound healing. Although systemic effects are extremely uncommon, there have been rare occurrences of systemic hypercorticoidism after use of topical corticosteroids. Corticosteroid-containing preparations can also cause acute anterior uveitis or perforation of the globe. Mydriasis, loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids. Secondary infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing corticosteroids and antibacterials. Fungal and viral infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of corticosteroid. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where corticosteroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include gastrointestinal intolerance, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Skin rashes of various types may occur. Such reactions may necessitate temporary or permanent changes in dosage or usage. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact GM Pharmaceuticals at 1-888-535-0305."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic reactions have been reported following the use of oral and parenteral folate. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body has been associated with cobalamin. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, transient skin rash, flushing, epigastric pain, and constipation have been associated with acetylcysteine. Call your medical practitioner about side effects."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid, as well as possibly the use of other forms of folates - including reduced folates."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. CAUTION Exercise caution to ensure that the prescribed dosage of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1000 mg) per day."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. CAUTION: Exercise caution to ensure that the prescribed dosage of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1000 mg) per day."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Caution should be exercised with patients with known allergies to fish or fish by-products. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report suspected side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088."$$
"Adverse Reactions Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report a serious adverse event or to obtain product information, contact (866) 703-3508."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Although rare, sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-866-762-2365."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glucosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic section). Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience CLAFORAN is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following IM or IV injection. Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently. The most frequent adverse reactions (greater than 1%) are: Local (4.3%) - Injection site inflammation with IV administration. Pain, induration, and tenderness after IM injection. Hypersensitivity (2.4%) - Rash, pruritus, fever, eosinophilia. Gastrointestinal (1.4%) - Colitis, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis can appear during or after antibiotic treatment. Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Less frequent adverse reactions (less than 1%) are: Hematologic System - Neutropenia, leukopenia, have been reported. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with CLAFORAN and other cephalosporin antibiotics. Genitourinary System - Moniliasis, vaginitis. Central Nervous System - Headache. Liver - Transient elevations in AST, ALT, serum LDH, and serum alkaline phosphatase levels have been reported. Kidney - As with some other cephalosporins, transient elevations of BUN have been occasionally observed with CLAFORAN. Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of CLAFORAN. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular System - Potentially life-threatening arrhythmias following rapid (less than 60 seconds) bolus administration via central venous catheter have been observed. Central Nervous System - Administration of high doses of beta-lactam antibiotics, including cefotaxime, particularly in patients with renal insufficiency may result in encephalopathy (e.g. impairment of consciousness, abnormal movements and convulsions). Dizziness has also been reported. Cutaneous - As with other cephalosporins, isolated cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme have been reported. Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) has also been reported. General disorders and administration site conditions - Inflammatory reactions at the injection site, including phlebitis/thrombophlebitis. Hematologic System - Hemolytic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, bone marrow failure. Hypersensitivity - Anaphylaxis (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm, malaise possibly culminating in shock), urticaria. Kidney - Interstitial nephritis, transient elevations of creatinine, acute renal failure. Liver - Hepatitis, jaundice, cholestasis, elevations of gamma GT and bilirubin. Cephalosporin Class Labeling In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with cefotaxime sodium, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: allergic reactions, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and false-positive test for urinary glucose. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and OVERDOSAGE . If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience CLAFORAN is generally well tolerated. The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following IM or IV injection. Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently. The most frequent adverse reactions (greater than 1%) are: Local (4.3%) - Injection site inflammation with IV administration. Pain, induration, and tenderness after IM injection. Hypersensitivity (2.4%) - Rash, pruritus, fever, eosinophilia. Gastrointestinal (1.4%) - Colitis, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis can appear during or after antibiotic treatment. Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely. Less frequent adverse reactions (less than 1%) are: Hematologic System - Neutropenia, transient leukopenia, have been reported. Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with CLAFORAN and other cephalosporin antibiotics. Genitourinary System - Moniliasis, vaginitis. Central Nervous System - Headache. Liver - Transient elevations in AST, ALT,serum LDH, and serum alkaline phosphatase levels have been reported. Kidney - As with some other cephalosporins, transient elevations of BUN and creatinine have been occasionally observed with CLAFORAN. Post-Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of CLAFORAN. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular System - Potentially life-threatening arrhythmias following rapid (less than 60 seconds) bolus administration via central venous catheter have been observed. Central Nervous System - Administration of high doses of beta-lactam antibiotics, including cefotaxime, particularly in patients with renal insufficiency may result in encephalopathy (e.g. impairment of consciousness, abnormal movements and convulsions). Cutaneous - As with other cephalosporins, isolated cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme have been reported. Hematologic System - Hemolytic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity - Anaphylaxis (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm, malaise possibly culminating in shock), urticaria. Kidney - Interstitial nephritis, transient elevations of creatinine. Liver - Hepatitis, jaundice, cholestasis, elevations of gamma GT and bilirubin. Cephalosporin Class Labeling In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with cefotaxime sodium, the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics: allergic reactions, hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, and false-positive test for urinary glucose. Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and OVERDOSAGE. If seizures associated with drug therapy occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure. Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure. Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, atulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, atulence, gross bleeding/ perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including:abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole:fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System:congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System:ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System:asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages:alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses:blurred vision Urogenital System:cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole:anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System:arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System:colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System:agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional:hyperglycemia Nervous System:convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System:respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages:angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses:conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body As A Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic And Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic And Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin And Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body As A Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic And Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic And Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin And Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body As A Whole:fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System:congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System:dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic And Lymphatic System:ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic And Nutritional:weight changes Nervous System:anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System:asthma, dyspnea Skin And Appendages:alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses:blurred vision Urogenital System:cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body As A Whole:anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System:arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System:colitis, eructation, liver failure, pancreatitis Hemic And Lymphatic System:agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic And Nutritional:hyperglycemia Nervous System:convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System:respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin And Appendages:angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses:conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, USP or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1%-10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, USP or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Gastrointestinal experiences including: Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: fever, infection, sepsis Body as a Whole: : congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Cardiovascular System dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Digestive System: : ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic System weight changes Metabolic and Nutritional: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Nervous System: asthma, dyspnea Respiratory System: : alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Skin and Appendages blurred vision Special Senses: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Urogenital System: Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Body as a Whole: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Cardiovascular System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Digestive System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Hemic and Lymphatic System: hyperglycemia Metabolic and Nutritional: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Nervous System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Respiratory System: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Skin and Appendages: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment Special Senses: To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-432-8534 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients taking diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, USP or other NSAIDs, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1% to 10% of patients are: Gastrointestinal experiences including: abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, gross bleeding/perforation, heartburn, nausea, GI ulcers (gastric/duodenal) and vomiting. Abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, headaches, increased bleeding time, pruritus, rashes and tinnitus. Additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: Body as a Whole: fever, infection, sepsis Cardiovascular System: congestive heart failure, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope Digestive System: dry mouth, esophagitis, gastric/peptic ulcers, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice Hemic and Lymphatic System: ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, melena, purpura, rectal bleeding, stomatitis, thrombocytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: weight changes Nervous System: anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, nervousness, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors, vertigo Respiratory System: asthma, dyspnea Skin and Appendages: alopecia, photosensitivity, sweating increased Special Senses: blurred vision Urogenital System: cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, renal failure Other adverse reactions, which occur rarely are: Body as a Whole: anaphylactic reactions, appetite changes, death Cardiovascular System: arrhythmia, hypotension, myocardial infarction, palpitations, vasculitis Digestive System: colitis, eructation, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, liver failure, liver necrosis, pancreatitis Hemic and Lymphatic System: agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia Metabolic and Nutritional: hyperglycemia Nervous System: convulsions, coma, hallucinations, meningitis Respiratory System: respiratory depression, pneumonia Skin and Appendages: angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria Special Senses: conjunctivitis, hearing impairment To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact Actavis at 1-800-432-8534 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In some cases, allergic hypersensitivity has been reported following administration of folic acid. Mild gastrointestinal disturbances may occur with products containing ferrous fumarate (iron), but usually subside with continuation of therapy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any other trauma may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Post-operative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Irrigation or any trauma to the corneal endothelium may result in corneal swelling or bullous keratopathy. Postoperative inflammatory reactions as well as incidents of corneal edema and corneal decompensation have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glucosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic section). Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glucosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic section). Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glucosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic section). Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions consisting of pain, urticaria or ulceration may occur at the site of injection. A permanent discoloration may remain along the path of the sclerosed vein segment. Sloughing and necrosis of tissue may occur following extravasation of the drug. (See WARNINGS section.) Allergic reactions such as hives, asthma, hay fever and anaphylactic shock have been reported. Mild systemic reactions that have been reported include headache, nausea and vomiting. (See WARNINGS section.) At least six deaths have been reported with the use of Sotradecol. Four cases of anaphylactic shock leading to death have been reported in patients who received Sotradecol. One of these four patients reported a history of asthma, a contraindication to the administration of Sotradecol. (See WARNINGS section.) One death has been reported in a patient who received Sotradecol and who had been receiving an antiovulatory agent. Another death (fatal pulmonary embolism) has been reported in a 36-year-old female treated with sodium tetradecyl acetate and who was not taking oral contraceptives."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Local reactions of the infusion site consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis have been reported in the literature with peripheral amino acid infusions. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported in the literature during the peripheral administration of amino acids."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Of the 423 patients evaluable for safety in adequate and well-controlled trials, 211 were treated with diclofenac sodium gel, 3% drug product and 212 were treated with a vehicle gel. Eighty-seven percent (87%) of the diclofenac sodium gel, 3%-treated patients (183 patients) and 84% of the vehicle-treated patients (178 patients) experienced one or more adverse events (AEs) during the studies. The majority of these reactions were mild to moderate in severity and resolved upon discontinuation of therapy. Of the 211 patients treated with diclofenac sodium gel, 3%, 172 (82%) experienced AEs involving skin and the application site compared to 160 (75%) vehicle-treated patients. Application site reactions (ASRs) were the most frequent AEs in both diclofenac sodium gel, 3%-and vehicle-treated groups. Of note, four reactions, contact dermatitis, rash, dry skin and exfoliation (scaling) were significantly more prevalent in the diclofenac sodium gel, 3% group than in the vehicle-treated patients. Eighteen percent of diclofenac sodium gel, 3%-treated patients and 4% of vehicle-treated patients discontinued from the clinical trials due to adverse events (whether considered related to treatment or not). These discontinuations were mainly due to skin irritation or related cutaneous adverse reactions. Table 1 below presents the AEs reported at an incidence of >1% for patients treated with either Diclofenac Sodium Gel, 3% or vehicle (60- and 90-day treatment groups) during the phase 3 studies. Table 1. Adverse Events Reported (>1% in Any Treatment Group) During Diclofenac Sodium Gel, 3% Phase 3 Clinical Trials Incidences for 60-Day and 90-Day Treatments 60-day Treatment 90-day Treatment Diclofenac Sodium Gel, 3% (%) N=48 Gel Vehicle (%) N=49 Diclofenac Sodium Gel, 3% (%) N=114 Gel Vehicle (%) N=114 BODY AS A WHOLE 21 20 20 18 Abdominal Pain 2 0 1 0 Accidental Injury 0 0 4 2 Allergic Reaction 0 0 1 3 Asthenia 0 0 2 0 Back Pain 4 0 2 2 Chest Pain 2 0 1 0 Chills 0 2 0 0 Flu Syndrome 10 6 1 4 Headache 0 6 7 6 Infection 4 6 4 5 Neck Pain 0 0 2 0 Pain 2 0 2 2 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM 2 4 3 1 Hypertension 2 0 1 0 Migraine 0 2 1 0 Phlebitis 0 2 0 0 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 4 0 6 8 Constipation 0 0 0 2 Diarrhea 2 0 2 3 Dyspepsia 2 0 3 4 METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS 2 8 7 2 Creatine Phosphokinase Increased 0 0 4 1 Creatinine Increased 2 2 0 1 Edema 0 2 0 0 Hypercholesteremia 0 2 1 0 Hyperglycemia 0 2 1 0 SGOT Increased 0 0 3 0 SGPT Increased 0 0 2 0 MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM 4 0 3 4 Arthralgia 2 0 0 2 Arthrosis 2 0 0 0 Myalgia 2 0 3 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM 2 2 2 5 Anxiety 0 2 0 1 Dizziness 0 0 0 4 Hypokinesia 2 0 0 0 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 8 8 7 6 Asthma 2 0 0 0 Dyspnea 2 0 2 0 Pharyngitis 2 8 2 4 Pneumonia 2 0 0 1 Rhinitis 2 2 2 2 Sinusitis 0 0 2 0 SKIN AND APPENDAGES 75 86 86 71 Acne 0 2 0 1 Application Site Reaction 75 71 84 70 Acne 0 4 1 0 Alopecia 2 0 1 1 Contact Dermatitis 19 4 33 4 Dry Skin 27 12 25 17 Edema 4 0 3 0 Exfoliation 6 4 24 13 Hyperesthesia 0 0 3 1 Pain 15 22 26 30 Paresthesia 8 4 20 20 Photosensitivity Reaction 0 2 3 0 Pruritus 31 59 52 45 Rash 35 20 46 17 Vesiculobullous Rash 0 0 4 1 Contact Dermatitis 2 0 0 0 Dry Skin 0 4 3 0 Herpes Simplex 0 2 0 0 Maculopapular Rash 0 2 0 0 Pain 2 2 1 0 Pruritus 4 6 4 1 Rash 2 10 4 0 Skin Carcinoma 0 6 2 2 Skin Nodule 0 2 0 0 Skin Ulcer 2 0 1 0 SPECIAL SENSES 2 0 4 2 Conjunctivitis 2 0 4 1 Eye Pain 0 2 2 0 UROGENITAL SYSTEM 0 0 4 5 Hematuria 0 0 2 1 OTHER 0 0 0 3 Procedure 0 0 0 3 Skin and Appendages Adverse Events Reported for diclofenac sodium gel, 3% at Less Than 1% Incidence in the Phase 3 Studies: skin hypertrophy, paresthesia, seborrhea, urticaria, application site reactions (skin carcinoma, hypertonia, skin hypertrophy lacrimation disorder, maculopapular rash, purpuric rash, vasodilation). Adverse Reactions Reported for Oral Diclofenac Dosage Form (not topical diclofenac sodium gel, 3%): *Incidence greater than 1% marked with asterisk. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain or cramps*, headache*, fluid retention*, abdominal distention*, malaise, swelling of lips and tongue, photosensitivity, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, chest pain. Cardiovascular: hypertension, congestive heart failure, palpitations, flushing, tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions, myocardial infarction, hypotension. Digestive: diarrhea*, indigestion*, nausea*, constipation*, flatulence*, liver test abnormalities*, PUB*, i.e., peptic ulcer, with or without bleeding and/or perforation, or bleeding without ulcer, vomiting, jaundice, melena, esophageal lesions, aphthous stomatitis, dry mouth and mucous membranes, bloody diarrhea, hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, cirrhosis, hepatorenal syndrome, appetite change, pancreatitis with or without concomitant hepatitis, colitis, intestinal perforation. Hemic and Lymphatic: hemoglobin decrease, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, purpura, allergic purpura, bruising. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: azotemia, hypoglycemia, weight loss. Nervous System: dizziness*, insomnia, drowsiness, depression, diplopia, anxiety, irritability, aseptic meningitis, convulsions, paresthesia, memory disturbance, nightmares, tremor, tic, abnormal coordination, disorientation, psychotic reaction. Respiratory: epistaxis, asthma, laryngeal edema, dyspnea, hyperventilation, edema of pharynx. Skin and Appendages: rash*, pruritus*, alopecia, urticaria, eczema, dermatitis, bullous eruption, erythema multiforme major, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, excess perspiration, exfoliative dermatitis. Special Senses: tinnitus*, blurred vision, taste disorder, reversible and irreversible hearing loss, scotoma, vitreous floaters, night blindness, amblyopia. Urogenital: nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, oliguria, interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, acute renal failure, urinary frequency, nocturia, hematuria, impotence, vaginal bleeding."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Of the 423 patients evaluable for safety in adequate and well-controlled trials, 211 were treated with Diclofenac Sodium Gel drug product and 212 were treated with a vehicle gel. Eighty-seven percent (87%) of the Diclofenac Sodium Gel treated patients (183 patients) and 84% of the vehicle-treated patients (178 patients) experienced one or more adverse events (AEs) during the studies. The majority of these reactions were mild to moderate in severity and resolved upon discontinuation of therapy. Of the 211 patients treated with Diclofenac Sodium Gel, 172 (82%) experienced AEs involving skin and the application site compared to 160 (75%) vehicle-treated patients. Application site reactions (ASRs) were the most frequent AEs in both Diclofenac Sodium Gel and vehicle-treated groups. Of note, four reactions, contact dermatitis, rash, dry skin and exfoliation (scaling) were significantly more prevalent in the Diclofenac Sodium Gel group than in the vehicle-treated patients. Eighteen percent of Diclofenac Sodium Gel treated patients and 4% of vehicle-treated patients discontinued from the clinical trials due to adverse events (whether considered related to treatment or not). These discontinuations were mainly due to skin irritation or related cutaneous adverse reactions. Table 1 below presents the AEs reported at an incidence of >1% for patients treated with either Diclofenac Sodium Gel or vehicle (60- and 90-day treatment groups) during the phase 3 studies. Table 1. Adverse Events Reported (>1% in Any Treatment Group) During Diclofenac Sodium Gel Phase 3 Clinical Trials Incidences for 60-Day and 90-Day Treatments 60-day Treatment 90-day Treatment Diclofenac Sodium Gel (%) Gel Vehicle (%) Diclofenac Sodium Gel (%) Gel Vehicle (%) N=48 N=49 N=114 N=114 BODY AS A WHOLE 21 20 20 18 Abdominal Pain 2 0 1 0 Accidental Injury 0 0 4 2 Allergic Reaction 0 0 1 3 Asthenia 0 0 2 0 Back Pain 4 0 2 2 Chest Pain 2 0 1 0 Chills 0 2 0 0 Flu Syndrome 10 6 1 4 Headache 0 6 7 6 Infection 4 6 4 5 Neck Pain 0 0 2 0 Pain 2 0 2 2 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM 2 4 3 1 Hypertension 2 0 1 0 Migraine 0 2 1 0 Phlebitis 0 2 0 0 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 4 0 6 8 Constipation 0 0 0 2 Diarrhea 2 0 2 3 Dyspepsia 2 0 3 4 METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS 2 8 7 2 Creatine Phosphokinase Increased 0 0 4 1 Creatinine Increased 2 2 0 1 Edema 0 2 0 0 Hypercholesteremia 0 2 1 0 Hyperglycemia 0 2 1 0 SGOT Increased 0 0 3 0 SGPT Increased 0 0 2 0 MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM 4 0 3 4 Arthralgia 2 0 0 2 Arthrosis 2 0 0 0 Myalgia 2 0 3 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM 2 2 2 5 Anxiety 0 2 0 1 Dizziness 0 0 0 4 Hypokinesia 2 0 0 0 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 8 8 7 6 Asthma 2 0 0 0 Dyspnea 2 0 2 0 Pharyngitis 2 8 2 4 Pneumonia 2 0 0 1 Rhinitis 2 2 2 2 Sinusitis 0 0 2 0 SKIN AND APPENDAGES 75 86 86 71 Acne 0 2 0 1 Application Site Reaction 75 71 84 70 Acne 0 4 1 0 Alopecia 2 0 1 1 Contact Dermatitis 19 4 33 4 Dry Skin 27 12 25 17 Edema 4 0 3 0 Exfoliation 6 4 24 13 Hyperesthesia 0 0 3 1 Pain 15 22 26 30 Paresthesia 8 4 20 20 Photosensitivity Reaction 0 2 3 0 Pruritus 31 59 52 45 Rash 35 20 46 17 Vesiculobullous Rash 0 0 4 1 Contact Dermatitis 2 0 0 0 Dry Skin 0 4 3 0 Herpes Simplex 0 2 0 0 Maculopapular Rash 0 2 0 0 Pain 2 2 1 0 Pruritus 4 6 4 1 Rash 2 10 4 0 Skin Carcinoma 0 6 2 2 Skin Nodule 0 2 0 0 Skin Ulcer 2 0 1 0 SPECIAL SENSES 2 0 4 2 Conjunctivitis 2 0 4 1 Eye Pain 0 2 2 0 UROGENITAL SYSTEM 0 0 4 5 Hematuria 0 0 2 1 OTHER 0 0 0 3 Procedure 0 0 0 3 Skin and Appendages Adverse Events Reported for Diclofenac Sodium Gel at Less Than 1% Incidence in the Phase 3 Studies: skin hypertrophy, paresthesia, seborrhea, urticaria, application site reactions (skin carcinoma, hypertonia, skin hypertrophy lacrimation disorder, maculopapular rash, purpuric rash, vasodilation). Adverse Reactions Reported for Oral Diclofenac Dosage Form (not topical Diclofenac Sodium Gel): *Incidence Greater than 1% marked with asterisk. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain or cramps*, headache*, fluid retention*, abdominal distention*, malaise, swelling of lips and tongue, photosensitivity, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, chest pain. Cardiovascular: hypertension, congestive heart failure, palpitations, flushing, tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions, myocardial infarction, hypotension. Digestive: diarrhea*, indigestion*, nausea*, constipation*, flatulence*, liver test abnormalities*, PUB*, i.e., peptic ulcer, with or without bleeding and/or perforation, or bleeding without ulcer, vomiting, jaundice, melena, esophageal lesions, aphthous stomatitis, dry mouth and mucous membranes, bloody diarrhea, hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, cirrhosis, hepatorenal syndrome, appetite change, pancreatitis with or without concomitant hepatitis, colitis, intestinal perforation. Hemic and Lymphatic: hemoglobin decrease, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, purpura, allergic purpura, bruising. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: azotemia, hypoglycemia, weight loss. Nervous System: dizziness*, insomnia, drowsiness, depression, diplopia, anxiety, irritability, aseptic meningitis, convulsions, paresthesia, memory disturbance, nightmares, tremor, tic, abnormal coordination, disorientation, psychotic reaction. Respiratory: epistaxis, asthma, laryngeal edema, dyspnea, hyperventilation, edema of pharynx. Skin and Appendages: rash*, pruritus*, alopecia, urticaria, eczema, dermatitis, bullous eruption, erythema multiforme major, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, excess perspiration, exfoliative dermatitis. Special Senses: tinnitus*, blurred vision, taste disorder, reversible and irreversible hearing loss, scotoma, vitreous floaters, night blindness, amblyopia. Urogenital: nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, oliguria, interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, acute renal failure, urinary frequency, nocturia, hematuria, impotence, vaginal bleeding."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Of the 423 patients evaluable for safety in adequate and well-controlled trials, 211 were treated with diclofenac sodium gel drug product and 212 were treated with a vehicle gel. Eighty-seven percent (87%) of the diclofenac sodium gel-treated patients (183 patients) and 84% of the vehicle-treated patients (178 patients) experienced one or more adverse events (AEs) during the studies. The majority of these reactions were mild to moderate in severity and resolved upon discontinuation of therapy. Of the 211 patients treated with diclofenac sodium gel, 172 (82%) experienced AEs involving skin and the application site compared to 160 (75%) vehicle-treated patients. Application site reactions (ASRs) were the most frequent AEs in both diclofenac sodium gel-and vehicle-treated groups. Of note, four reactions, contact dermatitis, rash, dry skin and exfoliation (scaling) were significantly more prevalent in the diclofenac sodium gel group than in the vehicle-treated patients. Eighteen percent of diclofenac sodium gel-treated patients and 4% of vehicle-treated patients discontinued from the clinical trials due to adverse events (whether considered related to treatment or not). These discontinuations were mainly due to skin irritation or related cutaneous adverse reactions. Table 1 below presents the AEs reported at an incidence of >1% for patients treated with either diclofenac sodium gel or vehicle (60- and 90-day treatment groups) during the phase 3 studies. Table 1. Adverse Events Reported (>1% in Any Treatment Group) During Diclofenac Sodium Gel Phase 3 Clinical Trials Incidences for 60-Day and 90-Day Treatments 60-day Treatment 90-day Treatment Diclofenac Sodium (%) Gel Vehicle (%) Diclofenac Sodium (%) Gel Vehicle (%) N=48 N=49 N=114 N=114 BODY AS A WHOLE 21 20 20 18 Abdominal Pain 2 0 1 0 Accidental Injury 0 0 4 2 Allergic Reaction 0 0 1 3 Asthenia 0 0 2 0 Back Pain 4 0 2 2 Chest Pain 2 0 1 0 Chills 0 2 0 0 Flu Syndrome 10 6 1 4 Headache 0 6 7 6 Infection 4 6 4 5 Neck Pain 0 0 2 0 Pain 2 0 2 2 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM 2 4 3 1 Hypertension 2 0 1 0 Migraine 0 2 1 0 Phlebitis 0 2 0 0 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 4 0 6 8 Constipation 0 0 0 2 Diarrhea 2 0 2 3 Dyspepsia 2 0 3 4 METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS 2 8 7 2 Creatine Phosphokinase Increased 0 0 4 1 Creatinine Increased 2 2 0 1 Edema 0 2 0 0 Hypercholesteremia 0 2 1 0 Hyperglycemia 0 2 1 0 SGOT Increased 0 0 3 0 SGPT Increased 0 0 2 0 MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM 4 0 3 4 Arthralgia 2 0 0 2 Arthrosis 2 0 0 0 Myalgia 2 0 3 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM 2 2 2 5 Anxiety 0 2 0 1 Dizziness 0 0 0 4 Hypokinesia 2 0 0 0 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 8 8 7 6 Asthma 2 0 0 0 Dyspnea 2 0 2 0 Pharyngitis 2 8 2 4 Pneumonia 2 0 0 1 Rhinitis 2 2 2 2 Sinusitis 0 0 2 0 SKIN AND APPENDAGES 75 86 86 71 Acne 0 2 0 1 Application Site Reaction 75 71 84 70 Acne 0 4 1 0 Alopecia 2 0 1 1 Contact Dermatitis 19 4 33 4 Dry Skin 27 12 25 17 Edema 4 0 3 0 Exfoliation 6 4 24 13 Hyperesthesia 0 0 3 1 Pain 15 22 26 30 Paresthesia 8 4 20 20 Photosensitivity Reaction 0 2 3 0 Pruritus 31 59 52 45 Rash 35 20 46 17 Vesiculobullous Rash 0 0 4 1 Contact Dermatitis 2 0 0 0 Dry Skin 0 4 3 0 Herpes Simplex 0 2 0 0 Maculopapular Rash 0 2 0 0 Pain 2 2 1 0 Pruritus 4 6 4 1 Rash 2 10 4 0 Skin Carcinoma 0 6 2 2 Skin Nodule 0 2 0 0 Skin Ulcer 2 0 1 0 SPECIAL SENSES 2 0 4 2 Conjunctivitis 2 0 4 1 Eye Pain 0 2 2 0 UROGENITAL SYSTEM 0 0 4 5 Hematuria 0 0 2 1 OTHER 0 0 0 3 Procedure 0 0 0 3 Skin and Appendages Adverse Events Reported for Diclofenac Sodium Gel at Less Than 1% Incidence in the Phase 3 Studies: skin hypertrophy, paresthesia, seborrhea, urticaria, application site reactions (skin carcinoma, hypertonia, skin hypertrophy lacrimation disorder, maculopapular rash, purpuric rash, vasodilation). Adverse Reactions Reported for Oral Diclofenac Dosage Form (not topical diclofenac sodium gel): Body as a Whole: abdominal pain or crampsIncidence greater than 1% marked with asterisk., headache, fluid retention, abdominal distention, malaise, swelling of lips and tongue, photosensitivity, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, chest pain. Cardiovascular: hypertension, congestive heart failure, palpitations, flushing, tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions, myocardial infarction, hypotension. Digestive: diarrhea, indigestion, nausea, constipation, flatulence, liver test abnormalities, PUB, i.e., peptic ulcer, with or without bleeding and/or perforation, or bleeding without ulcer, vomiting, jaundice, melena, esophageal lesions, aphthous stomatitis, dry mouth and mucous membranes, bloody diarrhea, hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, cirrhosis, hepatorenal syndrome, appetite change, pancreatitis with or without concomitant hepatitis, colitis, intestinal perforation. Hemic and Lymphatic: hemoglobin decrease, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, purpura, allergic purpura, bruising. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: azotemia, hypoglycemia, weight loss. Nervous System: dizziness, insomnia, drowsiness, depression, diplopia, anxiety, irritability, aseptic meningitis, convulsions, paresthesia, memory disturbance, nightmares, tremor, tic, abnormal coordination, disorientation, psychotic reaction. Respiratory: epistaxis, asthma, laryngeal edema, dyspnea, hyperventilation, edema of pharynx. Skin and Appendages: rash, pruritus, alopecia, urticaria, eczema, dermatitis, bullous eruption, erythema multiforme major, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, excess perspiration, exfoliative dermatitis. Special Senses: tinnitus, blurred vision, taste disorder, reversible and irreversible hearing loss, scotoma, vitreous floaters, night blindness, amblyopia. Urogenital: nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, oliguria, interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, acute renal failure, urinary frequency, nocturia, hematuria, impotence, vaginal bleeding."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Of the 423 patients evaluable for safety in adequate and well-controlled trials, 211 were treated with diclofenac sodium gel drug product and 212 were treated with a vehicle gel. Eighty-seven percent (87%) of the diclofenac sodium gel-treated patients (183 patients) and 84% of the vehicle-treated patients (178 patients) experienced one or more adverse events (AEs) during the studies. The majority of these reactions were mild to moderate in severity and resolved upon discontinuation of therapy. Of the 211 patients treated with diclofenac sodium gel, 172 (82%) experienced AEs involving skin and the application site compared to 160 (75%) vehicle-treated patients. Application site reactions (ASRs) were the most frequent AEs in both diclofenac sodium gel-and vehicle-treated groups. Of note, four reactions, contact dermatitis, rash, dry skin and exfoliation (scaling) were significantly more prevalent in the diclofenac sodium gel group than in the vehicle-treated patients. Eighteen percent of diclofenac sodium gel-treated patients and 4% of vehicle-treated patients discontinued from the clinical trials due to adverse events (whether considered related to treatment or not). These discontinuations were mainly due to skin irritation or related cutaneous adverse reactions. Table 1 below presents the AEs reported at an incidence of >1% for patients treated with either diclofenac sodium gel or vehicle (60- and 90-day treatment groups) during the phase 3 studies. Table 1. Adverse Events Reported (>1% in Any Treatment Group) During Diclofenac Sodium Gel Phase 3 Clinical Trials Incidences for 60-Day and 90-Day Treatments 60-day Treatment 90-day Treatment Diclofenac Sodium (%) Gel Vehicle (%) Diclofenac Sodium (%) Gel Vehicle (%) N=48 N=49 N=114 N=114 BODY AS A WHOLE 21 20 20 18 Abdominal Pain 2 0 1 0 Accidental Injury 0 0 4 2 Allergic Reaction 0 0 1 3 Asthenia 0 0 2 0 Back Pain 4 0 2 2 Chest Pain 2 0 1 0 Chills 0 2 0 0 Flu Syndrome 10 6 1 4 Headache 0 6 7 6 Infection 4 6 4 5 Neck Pain 0 0 2 0 Pain 2 0 2 2 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM 2 4 3 1 Hypertension 2 0 1 0 Migraine 0 2 1 0 Phlebitis 0 2 0 0 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 4 0 6 8 Constipation 0 0 0 2 Diarrhea 2 0 2 3 Dyspepsia 2 0 3 4 METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS 2 8 7 2 Creatine Phosphokinase Increased 0 0 4 1 Creatinine Increased 2 2 0 1 Edema 0 2 0 0 Hypercholesteremia 0 2 1 0 Hyperglycemia 0 2 1 0 SGOT Increased 0 0 3 0 SGPT Increased 0 0 2 0 MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM 4 0 3 4 Arthralgia 2 0 0 2 Arthrosis 2 0 0 0 Myalgia 2 0 3 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM 2 2 2 5 Anxiety 0 2 0 1 Dizziness 0 0 0 4 Hypokinesia 2 0 0 0 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 8 8 7 6 Asthma 2 0 0 0 Dyspnea 2 0 2 0 Pharyngitis 2 8 2 4 Pneumonia 2 0 0 1 Rhinitis 2 2 2 2 Sinusitis 0 0 2 0 SKIN AND APPENDAGES 75 86 86 71 Acne 0 2 0 1 Application Site Reaction 75 71 84 70 Acne 0 4 1 0 Alopecia 2 0 1 1 Contact Dermatitis 19 4 33 4 Dry Skin 27 12 25 17 Edema 4 0 3 0 Exfoliation 6 4 24 13 Hyperesthesia 0 0 3 1 Pain 15 22 26 30 Paresthesia 8 4 20 20 Photosensitivity Reaction 0 2 3 0 Pruritus 31 59 52 45 Rash 35 20 46 17 Vesiculobullous Rash 0 0 4 1 Contact Dermatitis 2 0 0 0 Dry Skin 0 4 3 0 Herpes Simplex 0 2 0 0 Maculopapular Rash 0 2 0 0 Pain 2 2 1 0 Pruritus 4 6 4 1 Rash 2 10 4 0 Skin Carcinoma 0 6 2 2 Skin Nodule 0 2 0 0 Skin Ulcer 2 0 1 0 SPECIAL SENSES 2 0 4 2 Conjunctivitis 2 0 4 1 Eye Pain 0 2 2 0 UROGENITAL SYSTEM 0 0 4 5 Hematuria 0 0 2 1 OTHER 0 0 0 3 Procedure 0 0 0 3 Skin and Appendages Adverse Events Reported for Diclofenac Sodium Gel at Less Than 1% Incidence in the Phase 3 Studies: skin hypertrophy, paresthesia, seborrhea, urticaria, application site reactions (skin carcinoma, hypertonia, skin hypertrophy lacrimation disorder, maculopapular rash, purpuric rash, vasodilation). Adverse Reactions Reported for Oral Diclofenac Dosage Form (not topical diclofenac sodium gel): *Incidence greater than 1% marked with asterisk. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain or cramps*, headache*, fluid retention*, abdominal distention*, malaise, swelling of lips and tongue, photosensitivity, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, chest pain. Cardiovascular: hypertension, congestive heart failure, palpitations, flushing, tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions, myocardial infarction, hypotension. Digestive: diarrhea*, indigestion*, nausea*, constipation*, flatulence*, liver test abnormalities*, PUB*, i.e., peptic ulcer, with or without bleeding and/or perforation, or bleeding without ulcer, vomiting, jaundice, melena, esophageal lesions, aphthous stomatitis, dry mouth and mucous membranes, bloody diarrhea, hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, cirrhosis, hepatorenal syndrome, appetite change, pancreatitis with or without concomitant hepatitis, colitis, intestinal perforation. Hemic and Lymphatic: hemoglobin decrease, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, purpura, allergic purpura, bruising. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: azotemia, hypoglycemia, weight loss. Nervous System: dizziness*, insomnia, drowsiness, depression, diplopia, anxiety, irritability, aseptic meningitis, convulsions, paresthesia, memory disturbance, nightmares, tremor, tic, abnormal coordination, disorientation, psychotic reaction. Respiratory: epistaxis, asthma, laryngeal edema, dyspnea, hyperventilation, edema of pharynx. Skin and Appendages: rash*, pruritus*, alopecia, urticaria, eczema, dermatitis, bullous eruption, erythema multiforme major, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, excess perspiration, exfoliative dermatitis. Special Senses: tinnitus*, blurred vision, taste disorder, reversible and irreversible hearing loss, scotoma, vitreous floaters, night blindness, amblyopia. Urogenital: nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, oliguria, interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, acute renal failure, urinary frequency, nocturia, hematuria, impotence, vaginal bleeding."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Of the 423 patients evaluable for safety in adequate and well-controlled trials, 211 were treated with Solaraze(R) drug product and 212 were treated with a vehicle gel. Eighty-seven percent (87%) of the Solaraze(R)-treated patients (183 patients) and 84% of the vehicle-treated patients (178 patients) experienced one or more adverse events (AEs) during the studies. The majority of these reactions were mild to moderate in severity and resolved upon discontinuation of therapy. Of the 211 patients treated with Solaraze(R), 172 (82%) experienced AEs involving skin and the application site compared to 160 (75%) vehicle-treated patients. Application site reactions (ASRs) were the most frequent AEs in both Solaraze(R)-and vehicle-treated groups. Of note, four reactions, contact dermatitis, rash, dry skin and exfoliation (scaling) were significantly more prevalent in the Solaraze(R) group than in the vehicle-treated patients. Eighteen percent of Solaraze(R)-treated patients and 4% of vehicle-treated patients discontinued from the clinical trials due to adverse events (whether considered related to treatment or not). These discontinuations were mainly due to skin irritation or related cutaneous adverse reactions. Table 1 below presents the AEs reported at an incidence of >1% for patients treated with either Solaraze(R) Gel or vehicle (60- and 90-day treatment groups) during the phase 3 studies. Table 1. Adverse Events Reported (>1% in Any Treatment Group) During Solaraze(R) Phase 3 Clinical Trials Incidences for 60-Day and 90-Day Treatments 60-day Treatment 90-day Treatment Solaraze(R) (%) Gel Vehicle (%) Solaraze(R) (%) Gel Vehicle (%) N=48 N=49 N=114 N=114 BODY AS A WHOLE 21 20 20 18 Abdominal Pain 2 0 1 0 Accidental Injury 0 0 4 2 Allergic Reaction 0 0 1 3 Asthenia 0 0 2 0 Back Pain 4 0 2 2 Chest Pain 2 0 1 0 Chills 0 2 0 0 Flu Syndrome 10 6 1 4 Headache 0 6 7 6 Infection 4 6 4 5 Neck Pain 0 0 2 0 Pain 2 0 2 2 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM 2 4 3 1 Hypertension 2 0 1 0 Migraine 0 2 1 0 Phlebitis 0 2 0 0 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 4 0 6 8 Constipation 0 0 0 2 Diarrhea 2 0 2 3 Dyspepsia 2 0 3 4 METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS 2 8 7 2 Creatine Phosphokinase Increased 0 0 4 1 Creatinine Increased 2 2 0 1 Edema 0 2 0 0 Hypercholesteremia 0 2 1 0 Hyperglycemia 0 2 1 0 SGOT Increased 0 0 3 0 SGPT Increased 0 0 2 0 MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM 4 0 3 4 Arthralgia 2 0 0 2 Arthrosis 2 0 0 0 Myalgia 2 0 3 1 NERVOUS SYSTEM 2 2 2 5 Anxiety 0 2 0 1 Dizziness 0 0 0 4 Hypokinesia 2 0 0 0 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 8 8 7 6 Asthma 2 0 0 0 Dyspnea 2 0 2 0 Pharyngitis 2 8 2 4 Pneumonia 2 0 0 1 Rhinitis 2 2 2 2 Sinusitis 0 0 2 0 SKIN AND APPENDAGES 75 86 86 71 Acne 0 2 0 1 Application Site Reaction 75 71 84 70 Acne 0 4 1 0 Alopecia 2 0 1 1 Contact Dermatitis 19 4 33 4 Dry Skin 27 12 25 17 Edema 4 0 3 0 Exfoliation 6 4 24 13 Hyperesthesia 0 0 3 1 Pain 15 22 26 30 Paresthesia 8 4 20 20 Photosensitivity Reaction 0 2 3 0 Pruritus 31 59 52 45 Rash 35 20 46 17 Vesiculobullous Rash 0 0 4 1 Contact Dermatitis 2 0 0 0 Dry Skin 0 4 3 0 Herpes Simplex 0 2 0 0 Maculopapular Rash 0 2 0 0 Pain 2 2 1 0 Pruritus 4 6 4 1 Rash 2 10 4 0 Skin Carcinoma 0 6 2 2 Skin Nodule 0 2 0 0 Skin Ulcer 2 0 1 0 SPECIAL SENSES 2 0 4 2 Conjunctivitis 2 0 4 1 Eye Pain 0 2 2 0 UROGENITAL SYSTEM 0 0 4 5 Hematuria 0 0 2 1 OTHER 0 0 0 3 Procedure 0 0 0 3 Skin and Appendages Adverse Events Reported for Solaraze (R) at Less Than 1% Incidence in the Phase 3 Studies: skin hypertrophy, paresthesia, seborrhea, urticaria, application site reactions (skin carcinoma, hypertonia, skin hypertrophy lacrimation disorder, maculopapular rash, purpuric rash, vasodilation). Adverse Reactions Reported for Oral Diclofenac Dosage Form (not topical Solaraze (R) Gel): *Incidence Greater than 1% marked with asterisk. Body as a Whole: abdominal pain or cramps*, headache*, fluid retention*, abdominal distention*, malaise, swelling of lips and tongue, photosensitivity, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, chest pain. Cardiovascular: hypertension, congestive heart failure, palpitations, flushing, tachycardia, premature ventricular contractions, myocardial infarction, hypotension. Digestive: diarrhea*, indigestion*, nausea*, constipation*, flatulence*, liver test abnormalities*, PUB*, i.e., peptic ulcer, with or without bleeding and/or perforation, or bleeding without ulcer, vomiting, jaundice, melena, esophageal lesions, aphthous stomatitis, dry mouth and mucous membranes, bloody diarrhea, hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, cirrhosis, hepatorenal syndrome, appetite change, pancreatitis with or without concomitant hepatitis, colitis, intestinal perforation. Hemic and Lymphatic: hemoglobin decrease, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, purpura, allergic purpura, bruising. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: azotemia, hypoglycemia, weight loss. Nervous System: dizziness*, insomnia, drowsiness, depression, diplopia, anxiety, irritability, aseptic meningitis, convulsions, paresthesia, memory disturbance, nightmares, tremor, tic, abnormal coordination, disorientation, psychotic reaction. Respiratory: epistaxis, asthma, laryngeal edema, dyspnea, hyperventilation, edema of pharynx. Skin and Appendages: rash*, pruritus*, alopecia, urticaria, eczema, dermatitis, bullous eruption, erythema multiforme major, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, excess perspiration, exfoliative dermatitis. Special Senses: tinnitus*, blurred vision, taste disorder, reversible and irreversible hearing loss, scotoma, vitreous floaters, night blindness, amblyopia. Urogenital: nephrotic syndrome, proteinuria, oliguria, interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, acute renal failure, urinary frequency, nocturia, hematuria, impotence, vaginal bleeding."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions A 3.5% to 5% solution of amino acids (without additives) is slightly hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Electrolyte additives should be spread throughout the day. Irritating additive medications may need to be infused at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Peripheral Infusions Aminosyn 3.5% M* Sulfite-Free, (a crystalline amino acid solution* with maintenance electrolytes) is hypertonic. Local reactions consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis at the infusion site have occurred with peripheral intravenous infusion of amino acids particularly if other substances, such as antibiotics, are also administered through the same site. In such cases the infusion site should be changed promptly to another vein. Use of large peripheral veins, inline filters, and slowing the rate of infusion may reduce the incidence of local venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may need to be injected at another venous site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea also have been reported during peripheral infusions of amino acid solutions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. Should any adverse reaction occur, discontinue the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities, tissues, or indwelling catheters and tubes can be minimized when proper procedures are followed. Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities. Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues. Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue administration of the irrigant, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Hypotension, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Wheezing, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Pyrexia, Chills -Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia, Hyperglycemia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions, reported with PLASMA-LYTE products are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest Pain, Respiratory rate increased, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral -Infusion site pain"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions; Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia was well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia as well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Too rapid infusion of hypertonic solutions may cause local pain and venous irritation. Rate of administration should be adjusted according to tolerance. Use of the largest peripheral vein and a small bore needle is recommended. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water, resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume. Reactions reported with the use of potassium-containing solutions include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhea. The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities, areflexia, muscular or respiratory paralysis, mental confusion, weakness, hypotension, cardiac arrhythmias, heart block, electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest. Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function, and intestinal ileus and dilatation. If infused in large amounts, chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions, resulting in an acidifying effect. Abnormally high plasma levels of magnesium can result in flushing, sweating, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and depression of cardiac and central nervous system function. Respiratory depression is the most immediate threat to life. Magnesium deficits can result in tachycardia, hypertension, hyperirritability and psychotic behavior. The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives. Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS Too rapid infusion of these CLINIMIX E sulfite-free (Amino Acid with Electrolytes in Dextrose with Calcium) Injections may result in diuresis, hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and hyperosmolar coma. Continual clinical monitoring of the patient is necessary in order to identify and initiate measures for these clinical conditions. Reactions that may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation, and hypervolemia. Policies and procedures should be established for the recognition and management of such reactions. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures, and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS and Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition . Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis, and hypervolemia. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution infused, therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. Infrequent instances of hyperammonemia have been reported following administration of essential amino acid solutions to patients with massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage, nonuremic infants and pediatric patients or following administration of higher than recommended doses to adult or pediatric patients. Elevated plasma amino acid levels (hypermethionemia) have also been reported in infants especially in higher dosage ranges. Elevated serum ammonia levels, plasma amino acid levels, and clinical symptoms may subside when the infusions are discontinued. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany, and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See \\\\"WARNINGS\\\\" and \\\\"Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition.\\\\" Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reactions of the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported during peripheral administration of amino acids. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See \\\\"WARNINGS\\\\" and \\\\"Special Precautions for Central Venous Nutrition\\\\" . Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. Local reactions of the infusion site, consisting of a warm sensation, erythema, phlebitis and thrombosis, have been reported with peripheral amino acid infusions, especially if other substances are also administered through the same site. Generalized flushing, fever and nausea have been reported during peripheral administration of amino acids. Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution; therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential. If electrolyte supplementation is required during peripheral infusion, it is recommended that additives be administered throughout the day in order to avoid possible venous irritation. Irritating additive medications may require injection at another site and should not be added directly to the amino acid infusate. Phosphorus deficiency may lead to impaired tissue oxygenation and acute hemolytic anemia. Relative to calcium, excessive phosphorus intake can precipitate hypocalcemia with cramps, tetany and muscular hyperexcitability. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium containing compounds. See WARNINGS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium containing compounds. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium-containing solutions. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium-containing solutions. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium-containing solutions. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS. Overzealous administration can result in edema and symptoms resembling congestive heart failure. Signs of postoperative salt intolerance include cellular dehydration, weakness, disorientation, anorexia, nausea, distention, deep respiration, oliguria and increased blood urea nitrogen."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with IV infusion of excessive amounts of sodium-containing solutions. See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in TPN Electrolytes. Therefore, frequent monitoring of electrolyte blood levels is recommended. Sodium excess can cause edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure. Excess potassium can cause deviations from the normal ECG (electrocardiogram). Potassium deficits can impair neuromuscular function, causing muscle weakness or frank paralysis, intestinal dilatation and ileus. Calcium deficits can produce neuromuscular hyperexcitability, ranging from paresthesias, cramps and laryngospasm to tetany and grand mal seizures. Depressed calcium levels can accompany administration of parenteral phosphorous or large amounts of albumin. Magnesium deficiency can precipitate neuromuscular dysfunction, hyperirritability, psychotic behavior, tachycardia and hypertension. Magnesium excess can cause muscle weakness, ECG changes, sedation and mental confusion."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions which have been observed in clinical trials encompass observations in about 4,370 patients treated with tolmetin sodium, over 800 of whom have undergone at least one year of therapy. These adverse reactions, reported below by body system, are among those typical of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and, as expected, gastrointestinal complaints were most frequent. In clinical trials with tolmetin, about 10% of patients dropped out because of adverse reactions, mostly gastrointestinal in nature. Incidence Greater Than 1% The following adverse reactions which occurred more frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials: Gastrointestinal: nausea (11%), dyspepsia 1, gastrointestinal distress1, abdominal pain1, diarrhea1, flatulence1, vomiting1, constipation, gastritis, and peptic ulcer. Forty percent of the ulcer patients had a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or were receiving concomitant anti-inflammatory drugs including corticosteroids, which are known to produce peptic ulceration. Body as a Whole: headache1, asthenia1, chest pain Cardiovascular: elevated blood pressure1, edema1 Central Nervous System: dizziness1, drowsiness, depression Metabolic/Nutritional: weight gain1, weight loss1 Dermatologic: skin irritation Special Senses: tinnitus, visual disturbance Hematologic: Small and transient decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit not associated with gastrointestinal bleeding have occurred. These are similar to changes reported with other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Urogenital: elevated BUN, urinary tract infection 1 Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with tolmetin sodium. Reactions occurring in fewer than 3% of the patients are unmarked. Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Probable) The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 in controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing. The probability exists that there is a causal relationship between tolmetin and these adverse reactions. Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding with or without evidence of peptic ulcer, perforation, glossitis, stomatitis, hepatitis, liver function abnormalities. Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, fever, lymphadenopathy, serum sickness Hematologic: hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function Dermatologic: urticaria, purpura, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis Urogenital: hematuria, proteinuria, dysuria, renal failure Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Unknown) Other adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 in controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing, but a causal relationship between tolmetin and the reaction could not be determined. These rarely reported reactions are being listed as alerting information for the physician since the possibility of a causal relationship cannot be excluded. Body as a Whole: epistaxis Special Senses: optic neuropathy, retinal and macular changes"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions which have been observed in clinical trials encompass observations in about 4,370 patients treated with tolmetin sodium, over 800 of whom have undergone at least one year of therapy. These adverse reactions, reported below by body system, are among those typical of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and, as expected, gastrointestinal complaints were most frequent. In clinical trials with tolmetin, about 10% of patients dropped out because of adverse reactions, mostly gastrointestinal in nature. Incidence Greater Than 1% The following adverse reactions which occurred more frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials: Gastrointestinal: nausea (11%), dyspepsia*, gastrointestinal distress*, abdominal pain*, diarrhea*, flatulence*, vomiting*, constipation, gastritis, and peptic ulcer. Forty percent of the ulcer patients had a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or were receiving concomitant anti-inflammatory drugs including corticosteroids, which are known to produce peptic ulceration. Body as a Whole: headache*, asthenia*, chest pain Cardiovascular: elevated blood pressure*, edema* Central Nervous System: dizziness*, drowsiness, depression Metabolic/Nutritional: weight gain*, weight loss* Dermatologic: skin irritation Special Senses: tinnitus, visual disturbance Hematologic: Small and transient decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit not associated with gastrointestinal bleeding have occurred. These are similar to changes reported with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Urogenital: elevated BUN, urinary tract infection * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with tolmetin sodium. Reactions occurring in fewer than 3% of the patients are unmarked. Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Probable) The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 in controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing. The probability exists that there is a causal relationship between tolmetin and these adverse reactions. Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding with or without evidence of peptic ulcer, perforation, glossitis, stomatitis, hepatitis, liver function abnormalities Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, fever, lymphadenopathy, serum sickness Hematologic: hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function Dermatologic: urticaria, purpura, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis Urogenital: hematuria, proteinuria, dysuria, renal failure Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Unknown) Other adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 in controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing, but a causal relationship between tolmetin and the reaction could not be determined. These rarely reported reactions are being listed as alerting information for the physician since the possibility of a causal relationship cannot be excluded. Body as a Whole: epistaxis Special Senses: optic neuropathy, retinal and macular changes"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions which have been observed in clinical trials encompass observations in about 4,370 patients treated with tolmetin sodium, over 800 of whom have undergone at least one year of therapy. These adverse reactions, reported below by body system, are among those typical of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and, as expected, gastrointestinal complaints were most frequent. In clinical trials with tolmetin, about 10% of patients dropped out because of adverse reactions, mostly gastrointestinal in nature. Incidence Greater Than 1% The following adverse reactions which occurred more frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials: Gastrointestinal: nausea (11%), dyspepsia*, gastrointestinal distress*, abdominal pain*, diarrhea*, flatulence*, vomiting*, constipation, gastritis, and peptic ulcer. Forty percent of the ulcer patients had a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or were receiving concomitant anti-inflammatory drugs including corticosteroids, which are known to produce peptic ulceration. Body as a Whole: headache*, asthenia*, chest pain Cardiovascular: elevated blood pressure*, edema* Central Nervous System: dizziness*, drowsiness, depression Metabolic/Nutritional: weight gain*, weight loss* Dermatologic: skin irritation Special Senses: tinnitus, visual disturbance Hematologic: Small and transient decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit not associated with gastrointestinal bleeding have occurred. These are similar to changes reported with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Urogenital: elevated BUN, urinary tract infection *Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with tolmetin sodium. Reactions occurring in fewer than 3% of the patients are unmarked. Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Probable) The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 in controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing. The probability exists that there is a causal relationship between tolmetin and these adverse reactions. Gastrointestinal: gastrointestinal bleeding with or without evidence of peptic ulcer, perforation, glossitis, stomatitis, hepatitis, liver function abnormalities Body as a Whole: anaphylactoid reactions, fever, lymphadenopathy, serum sickness Hematologic: hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis Cardiovascular: congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function Dermatologic: urticaria, purpura, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis Urogenital: hematuria, proteinuria, dysuria, renal failure Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Unknown) Other adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 in controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing, but a causal relationship between tolmetin and the reaction could not be determined. These rarely reported reactions are being listed as alerting information for the physician since the possibility of a causal relationship cannot be excluded. Body as a Whole: epistaxis Special Senses: optic neuropathy, retinal and macular changes"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions which have been observed in clinical trials encompass observations in about 4370 patients treated with tolmetin sodium, over 800 of whom have undergone at least one year of therapy. These adverse reactions, reported below by body system, are among those typical of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and, as expected, gastrointestinal complaints were most frequent. In clinical trials with tolmetin sodium, about 10% of patients dropped out because of adverse reactions, mostly gastrointestinal in nature. Incidence Greater Than 1% The following adverse reactions which occurred more frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials. Gastrointestinal: Nausea (11%), dyspepsia,* gastrointestinal distress,* abdominal pain,* diarrhea,* flatulence,* vomiting,* constipation, gastritis, and peptic ulcer. Forty percent of the ulcer patients had a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or were receiving concomitant anti-inflammatory drugs including corticosteroids, which are known to produce peptic ulceration. Body as a Whole: Headache,* asthenia,* chest pain Cardiovascular: Elevated blood pressure,* edema* Central Nervous System: Dizziness,* drowsiness, depression Metabolic/Nutritional: Weight gain,* weight loss* Dermatologic: Skin irritation Special Senses: Tinnitus, visual disturbance Hematologic: Small and transient decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit not associated with gastrointestinal bleeding have occurred. These are similar to changes reported with other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Urogenital: Elevated BUN, urinary tract infection * Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with tolmetin sodium. Reactions occurring in fewer than 3% of the patients are unmarked. Incidence Less Than 1% - (Causal Relationship Probable) The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing. The probability exists that there is a causal relationship between tolmetin sodium and these adverse reactions. Gastrointestinal: Gastrointestinal bleeding with or without evidence of peptic ulcer, perforation, glossitis, stomatitis, hepatitis, liver function abnormalities Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reactions, fever, lymphadenopathy, serum sickness Hematologic: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis Cardiovascular: Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function Dermatologic: Urticaria, purpura, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis Urogenital: Hematuria, proteinuria, dysuria, renal failure Incidence Less Than 1% - (Causal Relationship Unknown) Other adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 in controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing, but a causal relationship between tolmetin sodium and the reaction could not be determined. These rarely reported reactions are being listed as alerting information for the physician since the possibility of a causal relationship cannot be excluded. Body as a Whole: Epistaxis Special Senses: Optic neuropathy, retinal and macular changes"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions which have been observed in clinical trials encompass observations in about 4370 patients treated with tolmetin sodium, over 800 of whom have undergone at least one year of therapy. These adverse reactions, reported below by body system, are among those typical of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and, as expected, gastrointestinal complaints were most frequent. In clinical trials with tolmetin sodium, about 10% of patients dropped out because of adverse reactions, mostly gastrointestinal in nature. Incidence Greater Than 1% The following adverse reactions which occurred more frequently than 1 in 100 were reported in controlled clinical trials. Gastrointestinal: Nausea (11%), dyspepsia,Reactions occurring in 3% to 9% of patients treated with tolmetin sodium. Reactions occurring in fewer than 3% of the patients are unmarked. gastrointestinal distress, abdominal pain, diarrhea, flatulence, vomiting, constipation, gastritis, and peptic ulcer. Forty percent of the ulcer patients had a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or were receiving concomitant anti-inflammatory drugs including corticosteroids, which are known to produce peptic ulceration. Body as a Whole: Headache, asthenia, chest pain Cardiovascular: Elevated blood pressure, edema Central Nervous System: Dizziness, drowsiness, depression Metabolic/Nutritional: Weight gain, weight loss Dermatologic: Skin irritation Special Senses: Tinnitus, visual disturbance Hematologic: Small and transient decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit not associated with gastrointestinal bleeding have occurred. These are similar to changes reported with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Urogenital: Elevated BUN, urinary tract infection Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Probable) The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing. The probability exists that there is a causal relationship between tolmetin sodium and these adverse reactions. Gastrointestinal: Gastrointestinal bleeding with or without evidence of peptic ulcer, perforation, glossitis, stomatitis, hepatitis, liver function abnormalities Body as a Whole: Anaphylactoid reactions, fever, lymphadenopathy, serum sickness Hematologic: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis Cardiovascular: Congestive heart failure in patients with marginal cardiac function Dermatologic: Urticaria, purpura, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis Urogenital: Hematuria, proteinuria, dysuria, renal failure Incidence Less Than 1% (Causal Relationship Unknown) Other adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1 in 100 controlled clinical trials or were reported since marketing, but a causal relationship between tolmetin sodium and the reaction could not be determined. These rarely reported reactions are being listed as alerting information for the physician since the possibility of a causal relationship cannot be excluded. Body as a Whole: Epistaxis Special Senses: Optic neuropathy, retinal and macular changes"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with DEPO-MEDROL or other corticosteroids: Allergic reactions: Allergic or hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible subsequent perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intra-lesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Ophthalmic: Exophthalmoses, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, injection site infections following non-sterile administration (see WARNINGS ), malaise, moon face, weight gain. The following adverse reactions have been reported with the following routes of administration: Intrathecal/Epidural: Arachnoiditis, bowel/bladder dysfunction, headache, meningitis, parapareisis/paraplegia, seizures, sensory disturbances. Intranasal: Allergic reactions, rhinitis, temporary/permanent visual impairment including blindness. Ophthalmic: Increased intraocular pressure, infection, ocular and periocular inflammation including allergic reactions, residue or slough at injection site, temporary/permanent visual impairment including blindness. Miscellaneous injection sites (scalp, tonsillar fauces, sphenopalatine ganglion): blindness.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration. Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported after large intravenous doses of thiamine. The risk, however, is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins in the B group. There have been no reports of fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with M.V.I. Pediatric(R). There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: Dermatologic - rash, erythema, pruritus CNS - headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic -diplopia Allergic - urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing, and angioedema"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration. Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported after large intravenous doses of thiamine. The risk, however, is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins of the B group. There have been no reports of fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with multivitamin preparations for infusion. There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: Dermatologic - rash, erythema, pruritis CNS - headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic - diplopia Allergic - urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema."$$
"Adverse Reactions There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration. Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported following large intravenous doses of thiamine. However, the risk is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins of the B group. There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: Dermatologic - rash, erythema, pruritis CNS - headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic - diplopia Allergic - urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema."$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions Physical incompatibilities INFUVITE Pediatric (Multiple Vitamins for Infusion) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide, and chlorothiazide sodium, aminopylline or sodium bicarbonate. INFUVITE Pediatric is not physically compatible with ampicillin and it may not be physically compatible with tetracycline HCl. It has also been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate. Direct addition to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended. Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided. Some of the vitamins in INFUVITE Pediatric may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite; if bisulfite solutions are necessary, patients should be monitored for Vitamin A, thiamine, and ascorbic acid deficiencies."$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions Physical Incompatibilities: M.V.I. Pediatric(R) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as Diamox (Acetazolamide), Diuril Intravenous Sodium (Chlorothiazide sodium), Aminophylline or sodium bicarbonate. M.V.I. Pediatric(R) is not physically compatible with ampicillin and it may not be physically compatible with ACHROMYCIN (tetracycline HCl). It has also been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate. Direct addition of M.V.I. Pediatric(R) to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended. Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided. Several vitamins have been reported to decrease the activity of certain antibiotics. Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. Some of the vitamins in M.V.I. Pediatric(R) may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite; if bisulfite solutions are necessary, patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies."$$
"Drug - Drug/Solution Interactions: Caution should be exercised when administering INFUVITE ADULT to patients on warfarin sodium-type anticoagulant therapy. In such patients, vitamin K may antagonize the hypoprothrombinemic response to anticoagulant drugs, such as warfarin and its congeners. Therefore, periodic monitoring of prothrombin/INR response is essential in determining the appropriate dosage of anticoagulant therapy. INFUVITE ADULT (Multiple Vitamins for Infusion) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide, chlorothiazide sodium, aminophylline or sodium bicarbonate. Tetracycline HCl and ampicillin may not be physically compatible with INFUVITE ADULT . Also, it has been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate. Direct addition to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended. Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided. A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported which may affect the metabolism of either agent. The following are examples of these types of interactions. Folic acid may lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Conversely, phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations and, therefore, should be avoided in pregnancy. Folic acid may decrease the patient's response to methotrexate therapy. Pyridoxine may decrease the efficacy of levodopa by increasing its metabolism. Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Several vitamins have been reported to decrease the activity of certain antibiotics. Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. Vitamin K may antagonize the hypoprothrombinemic effect of oral anticoagulants (see bolded statement above). Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. Some of the vitamins in INFUVITE ADULT may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite; if bisulfite solutions are necessary, patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE Inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE Inhibitors. Aspirin As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of tolmetin sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure, as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. The in vitro binding of warfarin to human plasma proteins is unaffected by tolmetin, and tolmetin does not alter the prothrombin time of normal volunteers. However, increased prothrombin time and bleeding have been reported in patients on concomitant tolmetin and warfarin therapy. Therefore, caution should be exercised when administering tolmetin to patients on anticoagulants. Hypoglycemic Agents In adult diabetic patients under treatment with either sulfonylureas or insulin there is no change in the clinical effects of either tolmetin or the hypoglycemic agents."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE InhibitorsReports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE Inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE Inhibitors. AspirinAs with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of tolmetin sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. DiureticsClinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure, as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. LithiumNSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. MethotrexateNSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. WarfarinThe effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. The in vitro binding of warfarin to human plasma proteins is unaffected by tolmetin, and tolmetin does not alter the prothrombin time of normal volunteers. However, increased prothrombin time and bleeding have been reported in patients on concomitant tolmetin and warfarin therapy. Therefore, caution should be exercised when administering tolmetin to patients on anticoagulants. Hypoglycemic AgentsIn adult diabetic patients under treatment with either sulfonylureas or insulin there is no change in the clinical effects of either tolmetin or the hypoglycemic agents.",$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of tolmetin sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure, as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. The in vitro binding of warfarin to human plasma proteins is unaffected by tolmetin, and tolmetin does not alter the prothrombin time of normal volunteers. However, increased prothrombin time and bleeding have been reported in patients on concomitant tolmetin sodium and warfarin therapy. Therefore, caution should be exercised when administering tolmetin sodium capsules to patients on anticoagulants. Hypoglycemic Agents In adult diabetic patients under treatment with either sulfonylureas or insulin there is no change in the clinical effects of either tolmetin sodium capsules or the hypoglycemic agents."$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin As with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of tolmetin sodium and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure, as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. The in vitro binding of warfarin to human plasma proteins is unaffected by tolmetin, and tolmetin does not alter the prothrombin time of normal volunteers. However, increased prothrombin time and bleeding have been reported in patients on concomitant tolmetin sodium and warfarin therapy. Therefore, caution should be exercised when administering tolmetin sodium to patients on anticoagulants. Hypoglycemic Agents In adult diabetic patients under treatment with either sulfonylureas or insulin there is no change in the clinical effects of either tolmetin sodium or the hypoglycemic agents."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Normosol-R pH 7.4 does not contain calcium to avoid precipitation of calcium salts that may occur when certain drugs are added. Solutions which contain calcium in amounts exceeding the normal plasma concentration may enhance clotting on contact with citrated blood. Hence, Normosol-R pH 7.4 can be used for starting a blood transfusion."$$
"Drug Interactions Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentration, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of oral corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections, Vaccinations ).",$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics \\342\\200\\213Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (eg, barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin-B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (eg, barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section).",$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin-B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (eg, barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section)."$$
"Drug Interactions A single intravenous dose and oral dose of probenecid (500 mg each) followed by two oral doses of probenecid 500 mg at approximately hourly intervals administered to three healthy male subjects receiving a continuous infusion of cefotaxime increased the steady-state plasma concentration of cefotaxime by approximately 80%. In another study, administration of oral probenecid 500 mg every 6 hours to six healthy male subjects with cefotaxime 1 gram infused over 5 minutes decreased the total clearance of cefotaxime by approximately 50%. Additionally, no disulfiram-like reactions were reported in a study conducted in 22 healthy volunteers administered CLAFORAN and ethanol.",$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine Diclofenac, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that diclofenac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin When diclofenac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine Diclofenac, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that diclofenac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Coadministration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas coadministration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers; a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics: Drug Interactions)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin:When diclofenac sodium delayed-release is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium delayed-release, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac sodium delayed-release may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE-inhibitors:Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide:Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium delayed-release can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium:NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin:The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin: When diclofenac sodium delayed-release is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium delayed-release, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac sodium delayed-release may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium delayed-release can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers; a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin: When diclofenac sodium delayed-release is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate : NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine : Diclofenac sodium delayed-release, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac sodium delayed-release may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium delayed-release can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers; a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aspirin: When diclofenac sodium delayed-release is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine: Diclofenac sodium delayed-release, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac sodium delayed-release may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium delayed-release can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers; a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions)."$$
"Drug Interactions Because of its antianabolic activity, concurrent administration of tetracycline may reduce the potential anabolic effects of amino acids infused with dextrose as part of a parenteral feeding regimen. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions BLEPHAMIDE (R) ophthalmic ointment is incompatible with silver preparations. Local anesthetics related to p-aminobenzoic acid may antagonize the action of the sulfonamides."$$
"Drug Interactions: BLEPHAMIDE(R) ophthalmic ointment is incompatible with silver preparations. Local anesthetics related to p-aminobenzoic acid may antagonize the action of the sulfonamides."$$
"Drug Interactions BLEPHAMIDE (R) ophthalmic suspension is incompatible with silver preparations. Local anesthetics related to p-aminobenzoic acid may antagonize the action of the sulfonamides."$$
"Drug Interactions: BLEPHAMIDE(R) ophthalmic suspension is incompatible with silver preparations. Local anesthetics related to p-aminobenzoic acid may antagonize the action of the sulfonamides."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with these medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triameterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatibility of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folateFolate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. Virt-BAL DHA Plus does not contain l-methylfolate but these warnings are included as general folate information. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of Capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy. Iron may reduce zinc absorption."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. V-Natal Tabs does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-CH-PNV does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium levels in blood. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Cyclosporine: Diclofenac sodium delayed-release, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac sodium delayed-release may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. ACE-Inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. Furosemide: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium delayed-release can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seeWARNINGS, Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers; a dosage adjustment may be warranted (seeCLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions)."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS No well-controlled studies have been performed on patients taking antiovulatory agents. The physician must use judgment and evaluate any patient taking antiovulatory drugs prior to initiating treatment with Sotradecol. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS section). Heparin should not be included in the same syringe as Sotradecol, since the two are incompatible."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Pyridoxine supplements should be avoided in patients receiving levodopa alone, as the actions of levodopa may be antagonized."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Sodium-containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin, or to other salt-retaining patients. Administration of barbiturates, narcotics, hypnotics, or systemic anesthetics should be adjusted with caution in patients also receiving magnesium-containing solutions because of an additive central depressive effect. Parenteral magnesium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist. When introducing additives, use aseptic techniques. Mix thoroughly. Do not store."$$
"Drug Interactions Specific interaction studies between diclofenac sodium gel and other topical or oral agents were not performed."$$
"Drug Interactions Specific interaction studies between Diclofenac Sodium Gel and other topical or oral agents were not performed."$$
"Drug Interactions Specific interaction studies between Solaraze(R) Gel and other topical or oral agents were not performed."$$
"Drug Interactions : When diclofenac sodium delayed-release is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of diclofenac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Aspirin NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Methotrexate : Diclofenac sodium delayed-release, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins and increase the toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with diclofenac sodium delayed-release may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Caution should be used when diclofenac is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. Cyclosporine : : Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors. ACE-Inhibitors : Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that diclofenac sodium delayed-release can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Furosemide WARNINGS, Renal Effects : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Lithium : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Warfarin : Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Use caution when dosing diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers; a dosage adjustment may be warranted (see ). CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Drug Interactions"$$
"INTERACTIONS Drugs which may interact with folate include First generation anticonvulsants: High dose folic acid may result in decreased serum levels for first generation anticonvulsants (carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, valproic acid, valproate). This may possibly reduce the effectiveness of first generation anticonvulsants and/or increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible patients. Caution should be used when prescribing folates among patients who are receiving treatment with first generation anticonvulsants. Second-generation anticonvulsants: Information on the effect of second-generation anticonvulsants (including, but not limited to, lamotrigine) on folate levels is limited and cannot be ruled out. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colchicine: Colchicine may decrease folate plasma levels. L-dopa: L-dopa may decrease folate plasma levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Caution should be exercised when using folate with folate antagonists. Patients, typically, should not be given folate simultaneously with a folate antagonist, for the purpose of reducing or preventing clinical toxicity, as the therapeutic effect of the antagonist may be nullified. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes, including, but not limited to pancreatin and pancrelipase: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Folate may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folate in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folate and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. Drugs which may interact with pyridoxine hydrochloride include Pyridoxine hydrochloride should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa, because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine hydrochloride. However, pyridoxine hydrochloride may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa."$$
"Keep out of the reach of children. Do not swallow. If product is accidentally swallowed in quantities greater than would normally occur with a treatment gel, seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use on patients with an allergy Fluoride. For professional use only."$$
"Keep out of the reach of children. Do not swallow. If product is accidentally swallowed in quantities greater than would normally occur with a treatment gel, seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use on patients with an allergy Fluoride. Ionite APF Gel contains artificial color, confirm that no kno.wn patient allergies exist. For professional use only."$$
"Keep out of the reach of children. Do not swallow. If product is accidentally swallowed in quantities greater than would normally occur with a treatment gel, seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use on patients with an allergy Fluoride. Ionite Neutral Gel contains artificial color, confirm that no known patient allergies exist. For professional use only."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Warnings: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Precautions: Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Avoid contact with eyes, lips and mucous membranes. Although rare, sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur. Therefore, caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this product for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides. Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis, acute hemolytic anemia, purpura hemorrhagica, drug fever, jaundice, and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides. Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved. General: If irritation develops, use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long-term therapy. The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation, but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of epidermis. These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris, but patients should be cautioned about the possibility. Information for Patients: Avoid contact with eyes, eyelids, lips and mucous membranes. If accidental contact occurs, rinse with water. If excessive irritation develops, discontinue use and consult your physician. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility: Long-term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential. Pregnancy: Pregnancy Category C. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product. It is also not known whether this product can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. This product should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Nursing Mothers: It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in human milk following topical use of this product. However, small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be excreted in human milk. In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman. Pediatric Use: Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 has not been established."$$
"Warnings and Precautions Office Use Only. Not for Resale. This is a Compounded Drug."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. This product contains formate, which if consumed above the recommended level, could cause visual impairment and other effects on health. Do not exceed recommended dosage. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"Warnings and Precautions WARNINGS: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately. PRECAUTIONS: Folic Acid alone in doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using this product since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia. Ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) has been shown to have potential anti-thrombotic effects, including increased bleedng times. Administration of Folet DHA Omega-3 Fatty Acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants."$$
"Warnings: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. Precautions: Folic acid especially in doses above 1.0 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia (hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive). Caution should be exercised to ensure that the prescribed dose of DHA does not exceed 1 gram (1,000 mg) per day. Since daily ingestion of more than 3 grams (3,000 mg) per day of omega-3 fatty acids (including alphalinolenic acid (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) from fish oils may have potential antithrombotic activities and may increase bleeding times, administration of DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants."$$
