"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Products Containing Same Active Ingredient: Patients receiving Atelvia(R) should not be treated with risedronate sodium tablets (5.1) Upper Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions can occur. Instruct patients to follow dosing instructions. Discontinue use if new or worsening symptoms occur (5.2) Hypocalcemia may worsen and must be corrected prior to use (5.3) Osteonecrosis of the Jaw has been reported (5.4) Severe Bone, Joint, Muscle Pain may occur. Discontinue use if severe symptoms develop (5.5, 6.2) Atypical Femur Fractures have been reported. Patients with new thigh or groin pain should be evaluated to rule out a femoral fracture (5.6) 5.1 Drug Products with the Same Active Ingredient Risedronate sodium tablets contain the same active ingredient found in Atelvia(R). A patient being treated with Atelvia(R) should not receive risedronate sodium tablets. 5.2 Upper Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Risedronate sodium tablets, like other bisphosphonates administered orally, may cause local irritation of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa. Because of these possible irritant effects and a potential for worsening of the underlying disease, caution should be used when risedronate sodium is given to patients with active upper gastrointestinal problems (such as known Barrett's esophagus, dysphagia, other esophageal diseases, gastritis, duodenitis or ulcers) [see Contraindications (4), Adverse Reactions (6.1), Information for Patients (17.1)]. Esophageal adverse experiences, such as esophagitis, esophageal ulcers and esophageal erosions, occasionally with bleeding and rarely followed by esophageal stricture or perforation, have been reported in patients receiving treatment with oral bisphosphonates. In some cases, these have been severe and required hospitalization. Physicians should therefore be alert to any signs or symptoms signaling a possible esophageal reaction and patients should be instructed to discontinue risedronate sodium tablets and seek medical attention if they develop dysphagia, odynophagia, retrosternal pain or new or worsening heartburn. The risk of severe esophageal adverse experiences appears to be greater in patients who lie down after taking oral bisphosphonates and/or who fail to swallow it with the recommended full glass (6 to 8 ounces) of water, and/or who continue to take oral bisphosphonates after developing symptoms suggestive of esophageal irritation. Therefore, it is very important that the full dosing instructions are provided to, and understood by, the patient [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. In patients who cannot comply with dosing instructions due to mental disability, therapy with risedronate sodium tablets should be used under appropriate supervision. There have been post-marketing reports of gastric and duodenal ulcers with oral bisphosphonate use, some severe and with complications, although no increased risk was observed in controlled clinical trials. 5.3 Mineral Metabolism Hypocalcemia has been reported in patients taking risedronate sodium tablets. Treat hypocalcemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism before starting risedronate sodium tablets therapy. Instruct patients to take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if their dietary intake is inadequate. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients, especially in patients with Paget's disease in whom bone turnover is significantly elevated [see Contraindications (4), Adverse Reactions (6.1), Information for Patients (17.1)]. 5.4 Jaw Osteonecrosis Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ), which can occur spontaneously, is generally associated with tooth extraction and/or local infection with delayed healing, and has been reported in patients taking bisphosphonates, including risedronate sodium tablets. Known risk factors for osteonecrosis of the jaw include invasive dental procedures (for example, tooth extraction, dental implants, boney surgery), diagnosis of cancer, concomitant therapies (for example, chemotherapy, corticosteroids, angiogenesis inhibitors), poor oral hygiene, and co-morbid disorders (for example, periodontal and/or other pre-existing dental disease, anemia, coagulopathy, infection, ill-fitting dentures). The risk of ONJ may increase with duration of exposure to bisphosphonates. For patients requiring invasive dental procedures, discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment may reduce the risk for ONJ. Clinical judgment of the treating physician and/or oral surgeon should guide the management plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk assessment. Patients who develop osteonecrosis of the jaw while on bisphosphonate therapy should receive care by an oral surgeon. In these patients, extensive dental surgery to treat ONJ may exacerbate the condition. Discontinuation of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered based on individual benefit/risk assessment [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.5 Musculoskeletal Pain In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain in patients taking bisphosphonates [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting the drug. Most patients had relief of symptoms after stopping medication. A subset had recurrence of symptoms when rechallenged with the same drug or another bisphosphonate. Consider discontinuing use if severe symptoms develop. 5.6 Atypical Subtrochanteric and Diaphyseal Femoral Fractures Atypical, low-energy, or low trauma fractures of the femoral shaft have been reported in bisphosphonate-treated patients. These fractures can occur anywhere in the femoral shaft from just below the lesser trochanter to above the supracondylar flare and are traverse or short oblique in orientation without evidence of comminution. Causality has not been established as these fractures also occur in osteoporotic patients who have not been treated with bisphosphonates. Atypical femur fractures most commonly occur with minimal or no trauma to the affected area. They may be bilateral and many patients report prodromal pain in the affected area, usually presenting as dull, aching thigh pain, weeks to months before a complete fracture occurs. A number of reports note that patients were also receiving treatment with glucocorticoids (for example, prednisone) at the time of fracture. Any patient with a history of bisphosphonate exposure who presents with thigh or groin pain should be suspected of having an atypical fracture and should be evaluated to rule out an incomplete femur fracture. Patients presenting with an atypical fracture should also be assessed for symptoms and signs of fracture in the contralateral limb. Interruption of bisphosphonate therapy should be considered, pending a risk/benefit assessment, on an individual basis. 5.7 Renal Impairment Risedronate sodium tablets are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min). 5.8 Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis Before initiating risedronate sodium tablets treatment for the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, the sex steroid hormonal status of both men and women should be ascertained and appropriate replacement considered. 5.9 Laboratory Test Interactions Bisphosphonates are known to interfere with the use of bone-imaging agents. Specific studies with risedronate sodium tablets have not been performed."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Renal impairment may occur. Assess renal function before treatment and during therapy (5.1) -Seizures due to electrolyte abnormalities can occur (5.3) -Use caution in patients with higher risk of arrhythmias, e.g., cardiomyopathy, prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, or recent MI (5.2, 5.5) -Adequately hydrate before, during and after dosing (5.4) -Use caution in patients with history of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (5.6) 5.1 Renal Disease, Acute Phosphate Nephropathy, and Electrolyte Disorders Nephropathy, and Electrolyte Disorders Renal Disease and Acute Phosphate Nephropathy There have been rare, but serious, reports of renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, and nephrocalcinosis in patients who received oral sodium phosphate products (including oral sodium phosphate solutions and tablets) for colon cleansing prior to colonoscopy. These cases often resulted in permanent impairment of renal function and several patients required long-term dialysis. The time to onset is typically within days; however, in some cases, the diagnosis of these events has been delayed up to several months after the ingestion of these products. Patients at increased risk of acute phosphate nephropathy may include patients with the following: hypovolemia, baseline kidney disease, increased age, and patients using medicines that affect renal perfusion or function [such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and possibly nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Use OsmoPrep with caution in patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute), patients with a history of acute phosphate nephropathy, known or suspected electrolyte disturbances (such as dehydration), or people taking concomitant medications that may affect electrolyte levels (such as diuretics). Patients with electrolyte abnormalities such as hypernatremia, hyperphosphatemia, hypokalemia, or hypocalcemia should have their electrolytes corrected before treatment with OsmoPrep Tablets. Electrolyte Disorders Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of OsmoPrep. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration while or after taking OsmoPrep, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. [see Dosage and Administration (2) Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with OsmoPrep. In addition, use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment. [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] Patients should not administer additional laxative or purgative agents, particularly additional sodium phosphate-based purgative or enema products. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). QT prolongation with sodium phosphate tablets has been associated with electrolyte imbalances, such as hypokalemia and hypocalcemia. OsmoPrep Tablets should be used with caution in patients who are taking medications known to prolong the QT interval, since serious complications may occur. Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of sodium phosphate osmotic laxative products, such as OsmoPrep, in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. OsmoPrep should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures and in patients at higher risk of seizure [patients using concomitant medications that lower the seizure threshold (such as tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia]. 5.4 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering OsmoPrep. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.5 Inflammatory Bowel Disease Administration of OsmoPrep Tablets may induce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations. In the OsmoPrep clinical program, aphthous ulcers were observed in 3% of patients who took the 48 gram OsmoPrep dosing regimen. This colonoscopic finding should be considered in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease. Because published data suggest that sodium phosphate absorption may be enhanced in patients experiencing an acute exacerbation of chronic inflammatory bowel disease, OsmoPrep Tablets should be used with caution in such patients. 5.6 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of OsmoPrep."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Tissue necrosis: Necrosis or gangrene of skin or other tissues can occur, with severe cases requiring debridement or amputation. Discontinue COUMADIN and consider alternative anticoagulants if necessary. (5.2) -Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli: Some cases have progressed to necrosis or death. Discontinue COUMADIN if such emboli occur. (5.3) -Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT): Initial therapy with COUMADIN in HIT has resulted in cases of amputation and death. COUMADIN may be considered after platelet count has normalized. (5.4) -Pregnant women with mechanical heart valves: COUMADIN may cause fetal harm; however, the benefits may outweigh the risks. (5.5) 5.1 Hemorrhage COUMADIN can cause major or fatal bleeding. Bleeding is more likely to occur within the first month. Risk factors for bleeding include high intensity of anticoagulation (INR >4.0), age greater than or equal to 65, history of highly variable INRs, history of gastrointestinal bleeding, hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, anemia, malignancy, trauma, renal impairment, certain genetic factors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)], certain concomitant drugs [see Drug Interactions (7)], and long duration of warfarin therapy. Perform regular monitoring of INR in all treated patients. Those at high risk of bleeding may benefit from more frequent INR monitoring, careful dose adjustment to desired INR, and a shortest duration of therapy appropriate for the clinical condition. However, maintenance of INR in the therapeutic range does not eliminate the risk of bleeding. Drugs, dietary changes, and other factors affect INR levels achieved with COUMADIN therapy. Perform more frequent INR monitoring when starting or stopping other drugs, including botanicals, or when changing dosages of other drugs [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Instruct patients about prevention measures to minimize risk of bleeding and to report signs and symptoms of bleeding [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 5.2 Tissue Necrosis Necrosis and/or gangrene of skin and other tissues is an uncommon but serious risk (<0.1%). Necrosis may be associated with local thrombosis and usually appears within a few days of the start of COUMADIN therapy. In severe cases of necrosis, treatment through debridement or amputation of the affected tissue, limb, breast, or penis has been reported. Careful clinical evaluation is required to determine whether necrosis is caused by an underlying disease. Although various treatments have been attempted, no treatment for necrosis has been considered uniformly effective. Discontinue COUMADIN therapy if necrosis occurs. Consider alternative drugs if continued anticoagulation therapy is necessary. 5.3 Systemic Atheroemboli and Cholesterol Microemboli Anticoagulation therapy with COUMADIN may enhance the release of atheromatous plaque emboli. Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli can present with a variety of signs and symptoms depending on the site of embolization. The most commonly involved visceral organs are the kidneys followed by the pancreas, spleen, and liver. Some cases have progressed to necrosis or death. A distinct syndrome resulting from microemboli to the feet is known as "purple toes syndrome." Discontinue COUMADIN therapy if such phenomena are observed. Consider alternative drugs if continued anticoagulation therapy is necessary. 5.4 Limb Ischemia, Necrosis, and Gangrene in Patients with HIT and HITTS Do not use COUMADIN as initial therapy in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome (HITTS). Cases of limb ischemia, necrosis, and gangrene have occurred in patients with HIT and HITTS when heparin treatment was discontinued and warfarin therapy was started or continued. In some patients, sequelae have included amputation of the involved area and/or death. Treatment with COUMADIN may be considered after the platelet count has normalized. 5.5 Use in Pregnant Women with Mechanical Heart Valves COUMADIN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. While COUMADIN is contraindicated during pregnancy, the potential benefits of using COUMADIN may outweigh the risks for pregnant women with mechanical heart valves at high risk of thromboembolism. In those individual situations, the decision to initiate or continue COUMADIN should be reviewed with the patient, taking into consideration the specific risks and benefits pertaining to the individual patient's medical situation, as well as the most current medical guidelines. COUMADIN exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations (warfarin embryopathy and fetotoxicity), fatal fetal hemorrhage, and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.6 Other Clinical Settings with Increased Risks In the following clinical settings, the risks of COUMADIN therapy may be increased: -Moderate to severe hepatic impairment -Infectious diseases or disturbances of intestinal flora (e.g., sprue, antibiotic therapy) -Use of an indwelling catheter -Severe to moderate hypertension -Deficiency in protein C-mediated anticoagulant response: COUMADIN reduces the synthesis of the naturally occurring anticoagulants, protein C and protein S. Hereditary or acquired deficiencies of protein C or its cofactor, protein S, have been associated with tissue necrosis following warfarin administration. Concomitant anticoagulation therapy with heparin for 5 to 7 days during initiation of therapy with COUMADIN may minimize the incidence of tissue necrosis in these patients. -Eye surgery: In cataract surgery, COUMADIN use was associated with a significant increase in minor complications of sharp needle and local anesthesia block but not associated with potentially sight-threatening operative hemorrhagic complications. As COUMADIN cessation or reduction may lead to serious thromboembolic complications, the decision to discontinue COUMADIN before a relatively less invasive and complex eye surgery, such as lens surgery, should be based upon the risks of anticoagulant therapy weighed against the benefits. -Polycythemia vera -Vasculitis -Diabetes mellitus 5.7 Endogenous Factors Affecting INR The following factors may be responsible for increased INR response: diarrhea, hepatic disorders, poor nutritional state, steatorrhea, or vitamin K deficiency. The following factors may be responsible for decreased INR response: increased vitamin K intake or hereditary warfarin resistance."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >=3%) are abdominal bloating,abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-508-0024 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Abdominal bloating, nausea, abdominal pain, and vomiting were the most common adverse events reported with the use of OsmoPrep Tablets. Dizziness and headache were reported less frequently. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of OsmoPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical studies. Table 1 shows the most common adverse events associated with the use of 48 grams of OsmoPrep, 60 grams of OsmoPrep, and 60 grams of Visicol in the colon preparation trials (n= 931). Table 1: Frequency of Adverse Events of Any Severity Occurring in Greater Than 3% of Patients in the OsmoPrep Trials OsmoPrep 32 tabs (48 g) N=272 OsmoPrep 40 tabs (60 g) N=265 Visicol 40 tabs (60 g) N=268 Bloating 31% 39% 41% Nausea 26% 37% 30% Abdominal Pain 23% 24% 25% Vomiting 4% 10% 9% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of OsmoPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to OsmoPrep, or a combination of these factors. Body as a Whole: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous system: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported in greater than 10% of patients treated with risedronate sodium tablets and with a higher frequency than placebo are: back pain, arthralgia, abdominal pain, and dyspepsia (6.1) Hypersensitivity reactions (angioedema, generalized rash, bullous skin reactions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis), and eye inflammation (iritis, uveitis) have been reported rarely (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Daily Dosing The safety of risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg once daily in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multinational trials of 3232 women aged 38 to 85 years with postmenopausal osteoporosis. The duration of the trials was up to three years, with 1619 patients exposed to placebo and 1613 patients exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors, and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus vitamin D supplementation up to 500 international units per day if their 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 level was below normal at baseline. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 2.0% in the placebo group and 1.7% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group. The incidence of serious adverse events was 24.6% in the placebo group and 27.2% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from the study due to adverse events was 15.6% in the placebo group and 14.8% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. The most common adverse reactions reported in greater than 10 percent of subjects were: back pain, arthralgia, abdominal pain and dyspepsia. Table 1 lists adverse events from the Phase 3 postmenopausal osteoporosis trials reported in greater than or equal to 5% of patients. Adverse events are shown without attribution of causality. Table 1 Adverse Events Occurring at a Frequency greater than or equal to 5% in Either Treatment Group Combined Phase 3 Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Treatment Trials Body System Placebo N = 1619 % 5 mg risedronate sodium tablets N = 1613 % Body as a Whole Infection 29.9 31.1 Back Pain 26.1 28.0 Accidental Injury 16.8 16.9 Pain 14.0 14.1 Abdominal Pain 9.9 12.2 Flu Syndrome 11.6 10.5 Headache 10.8 9.9 Asthenia 4.5 5.4 Neck Pain 4.7 5.4 Chest Pain 5.1 5.0 Allergic Reaction 5.9 3.8 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 9.8 10.5 Digestive System Constipation 12.6 12.9 Diarrhea 10.0 10.8 Dyspepsia 10.6 10.8 Nausea 11.2 10.5 Metabolic & Nutritional Disorders Peripheral Edema 8.8 7.7 Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 22.1 23.7 Arthritis 10.1 9.6 Traumatic Bone Fracture 12.3 9.3 Joint Disorder 5.3 7.0 Myalgia 6.2 6.7 Bone Pain 4.8 5.3 Nervous System Dizziness 5.7 7.1 Depression 6.1 6.8 Insomnia 4.6 5.0 Respiratory System Bronchitis 10.4 10.0 Sinusitis 9.1 8.7 Rhinitis 5.1 6.2 Pharyngitis 5.0 6.0 Increased Cough 6.3 5.9 Skin and Appendages Rash 7.1 7.9 Special Senses Cataract 5.7 6.5 Urogenital System Urinary Tract Infection 10.4 11.1 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events: The incidence of adverse events in the placebo and risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily groups were: abdominal pain (9.9% versus 12.2%), diarrhea (10.0% versus 10.8%), dyspepsia (10.6% versus 10.8%), and gastritis (2.3% versus 2.7%). Duodenitis and glossitis have been reported uncommonly in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group (0.1% to 1%). In patients with active upper gastrointestinal disease at baseline, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse events was similar between the placebo and risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily groups. Musculoskeletal Adverse Events: The incidence of adverse events in the placebo and risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily groups were: back pain (26.1% versus 28.0%), arthralgia (22.1% versus 23.7%), myalgia (6.2% versus 6.7%), and bone pain (4.8% versus 5.3%). Laboratory Test Findings: Throughout the Phase 3 studies, transient decreases from baseline in serum calcium (less than 1%) and serum phosphate (less than 3%) and compensatory increases in serum PTH levels (less than 30%) were observed within 6 months in patients in osteoporosis clinical trials treated with risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg once daily. There were no significant differences in serum calcium, phosphate, or PTH levels between placebo and risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg once daily at 3 years. Serum calcium levels below 8 mg/dL were observed in 18 patients, 9 (0.5%) in each treatment arm (placebo and risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg once daily). Serum phosphorus levels below 2 mg/dL were observed in 14 patients, 3 (0.2%) treated with placebo and 11 (0.6%) treated with risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg once daily. There have been rare reports (less than 0.1%) of abnormal liver function tests. Endoscopic Findings: In the risedronate sodium tablets clinical trials, endoscopic evaluation was encouraged in any patient with moderate-to-severe gastrointestinal complaints, while maintaining the blind. Endoscopies were performed on equal numbers of patients between the placebo and treated groups [75 (14.5%) placebo; 75 (11.9%) risedronate sodium tablets]. Clinically important findings (perforations, ulcers, or bleeding) among this symptomatic population were similar between groups (51% placebo; 39% risedronate sodium tablets). Once-a-Week Dosing The safety of risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in a 1-year, double-blind, multicenter study comparing risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week in postmenopausal women aged 50 to 95 years. The duration of the trials was one year, with 480 patients exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and 485 exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors, and H2 antagonists were included in these clinical trials. All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus vitamin D supplementation up to 500 international units per day if their 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 level was below normal at baseline. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 0.4% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 1.0% in the risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week group. The incidence of serious adverse events was 7.1% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 8.2% in the risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from the study due to adverse events was 11.9% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 11.5% in the risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week group. The overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. Gastrointestinal Adverse Events: The incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events was similar between the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and the risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week group: dyspepsia (6.9% versus 7.6%), diarrhea (6.3% versus 4.9%), and abdominal pain (7.3% versus 7.6%). Musculoskeletal Adverse Events: Arthralgia was reported in 11.5% of patients in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 14.2% of patients in the risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week group. Myalgia was reported by 4.6% of patients in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 6.2% of patients in the risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week group. Laboratory Test Findings: The mean percent changes from baseline at 12 months were similar between the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week groups, respectively, for serum calcium (0.4% versus 0.7%), phosphate (-3.8% versus -2.6%) and PTH (6.4% versus 4.2%). Monthly Dosing Two Consecutive Days per Month The safety of risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg administered on two consecutive days per month for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in a double-blind, multicenter study in postmenopausal women aged 50 to 86 years. The duration of the trial was two years; 613 patients were exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and 616 were exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors, and H2 antagonists were included in this clinical trial. All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus 400 to 800 international units of vitamin D supplementation per day. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 1.0% for the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 0.5% for the risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month group. The incidence of serious adverse events was 10.8% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 14.4% in the risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 14.2% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 13.0% in the risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month group. The overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. Acute Phase Reactions: Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction have been reported with bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of acute phase reaction was 3.6% of patients on risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and 7.6% of patients on risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month. These incidence rates are based on reporting of any of 33 acute phase reaction-like symptoms within 5 days of the first dose. Fever or influenza-like illness with onset within the same period were reported by 0.0% of patients on risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and 0.6% of patients on risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month. Gastrointestinal Adverse Events: The risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month group resulted in a higher incidence of discontinuation due to vomiting (1.0% versus 0.2%) and diarrhea (1.0% versus 0.3%) compared to the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group. Most of these events occurred within a few days of dosing. Ocular Adverse Events: None of the patients treated with risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month reported ocular inflammation such as uveitis, scleritis, or iritis; 1 patient treated with risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily reported uveitis. Laboratory Test Findings: When risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month were compared in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, the mean percent changes from baseline at 24 months were 0.2% and 0.8% for serum calcium, -1.9% and -1.3% for phosphate, and -10.4% and -17.2% for PTH, respectively. Compared to the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group, risedronate sodium tablets 75 mg two consecutive days per month resulted in a slightly higher incidence of hypocalcemia at the end of the first month of treatment (4.5% versus 3.0%). Thereafter, the incidence of hypocalcemia with these regimens was similar at approximately 2%. Once-a-Month The safety of risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg administered once-a-month for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in a double-blind, multicenter study in postmenopausal women aged 50 to 88 years. The duration of the trial was one year, with 642 patients exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and 650 exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month. Patients with pre-existing gastrointestinal disease and concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, proton pump inhibitors, and H2 antagonists were included in this clinical trial. All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium plus up to 1000 international units of vitamin D supplementation per day. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 0.5% for the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 0.0% for the risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month group. The incidence of serious adverse events was 4.2% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 6.2% in the risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 9.5% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 8.6% in the risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month group. The overall safety and tolerability profiles of the two dosing regimens were similar. Acute Phase Reactions: Symptoms consistent with acute phase reaction have been reported with bisphosphonate use. The overall incidence of acute phase reaction was 1.1% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group and 5.2% in the risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month group. These incidence rates are based on reporting of any of 33 acute phase reaction-like symptoms within 3 days of the first dose and for a duration of 7 days or less. Fever or influenza-like illness with onset within the same period were reported by 0.2% of patients on risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and 1.4% of patients on risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month. Gastrointestinal Adverse Events: A greater percentage of patients experienced diarrhea with risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month compared to 5 mg daily (8.2% versus 4.7%, respectively). The risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month group resulted in a higher incidence of discontinuation due to abdominal pain upper (2.5% versus 1.4%) and diarrhea (0.8% versus 0.0%) compared to the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily regimen. All of these events occurred within a few days of the first dose. The incidence of vomiting that led to discontinuation was the same in both groups (0.3% versus 0.3%). Ocular Adverse Events: None of the patients treated with risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month reported ocular inflammation such as uveitis, scleritis, or iritis; 2 patients treated with risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily reported iritis. Laboratory Test Findings: When risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily and risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month were compared in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, the mean percent changes from baseline at 12 months were 0.1% and 0.3% for serum calcium, -2.3% and -2.3% for phosphate, and 8.3% and 4.8% for PTH, respectively. Compared to the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily regimen, risedronate sodium tablets 150 mg once-a-month resulted in a slightly higher incidence of hypocalcemia at the end of the first month of treatment (0.2% versus 2.2%). Thereafter, the incidence of hypocalcemia with these regimens was similar at approximately 2%. Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Daily Dosing The safety of risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily in the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis was assessed in two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. In one study of postmenopausal women aged 37 to 82 years without osteoporosis, the use of estrogen replacement therapy in both placebo- and risedronate sodium-treated patients was included. The duration of the trial was one year, with 259 exposed to placebo and 261 patients exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg. The second study included postmenopausal women aged 44 to 63 years without osteoporosis. The duration of the trial was one year, with 125 exposed to placebo and 129 patients exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg. All women received 1000 mg of elemental calcium per day. In the trial with estrogen replacement therapy, the incidence of all-cause mortality was 1.5% for the placebo group and 0.4% for the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. The incidence of serious adverse events was 8.9% in the placebo group and 5.4% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 18.9% in the placebo group and 10.3% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. Constipation was reported by 1.9% of the placebo group and 6.5% of risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. In the second trial, the incidence of all-cause mortality was 0.0% for both groups. The incidence of serious adverse events was 17.6% in the placebo group and 9.3% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from treatment due to adverse events was 6.4% in the placebo group and 5.4% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. Nausea was reported by 6.4% of patients in the placebo group and 13.2% of patients in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg group. Once-a-Week Dosing There were no deaths in a 1-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week for prevention of bone loss in 278 postmenopausal women without osteoporosis. More treated subjects on risedronate sodium tablets reported arthralgia (placebo 7.8%; risedronate sodium 13.9%), myalgia (placebo 2.1%; risedronate sodium 5.1%), and nausea (placebo 4.3%; risedronate sodium 7.3%) than subjects on placebo. Treatment to Increase Bone Mass in Men with Osteoporosis In a 2-year, double-blind, multicenter study, 284 men with osteoporosis were treated with placebo (N = 93) or risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg once-a-week (N = 191). The overall safety and tolerability profile of risedronate sodium tablets in men with osteoporosis was similar to the adverse events reported in the risedronate sodium tablets postmenopausal osteoporosis clinical trials, with the addition of benign prostatic hyperplasia (placebo 3%; risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg 5%), nephrolithiasis (placebo 0%; risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg 3%), and arrhythmia (placebo 0%; risedronate sodium tablets 35 mg 2%). Treatment and Prevention of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis The safety of risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily in the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis was assessed in two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multinational trials of 344 patients [male (123) and female (221)] aged 18 to 85 years who had recently initiated oral glucocorticoid therapy (less than or equal to 3 months, prevention study) or were on long-term oral glucocorticoid therapy (greater than or equal to 6 months, treatment study). The duration of the trials was one year, with 170 patients exposed to placebo and 174 patients exposed to risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily. Patients in one study received 1000 mg elemental calcium plus 400 international units of vitamin D supplementation per day; patients in the other study received 500 mg calcium supplementation per day. The incidence of all-cause mortality was 2.9% in the placebo group and 1.1% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group. The incidence of serious adverse events was 33.5% in the placebo group and 30.5% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group. The percentage of patients who withdrew from the study due to adverse events was 8.8% in the placebo group and 7.5% in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group. Back pain was reported in 8.8% of patients in the placebo group and 17.8% of patients in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group. Arthralgia was reported in 14.7% of patients in the placebo group and 24.7% of patients in the risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily group. Treatment of Paget's Disease Risedronate sodium tablets have been studied in 392 patients with Paget's disease of bone. As in trials of risedronate sodium tablets, for other indications, the adverse experiences reported in the Paget's disease trials have generally been mild or moderate, have not required discontinuation of treatment, and have not appeared to be related to patient age, gender, or race. The safety of risedronate sodium tablets was assessed in a randomized, double-blind, active-controlled study of 122 patients aged 34 to 85 years. The duration of the trial was 540 days, with 61 patients exposed to risedronate sodium tablets and 61 patients exposed to Didronel(R). The adverse event profile was similar for risedronate sodium tablets and Didronel: 6.6% (4/61) of patients treated with risedronate sodium tablets 30 mg daily for 2 months discontinued treatment due to adverse events, compared to 8.2% (5/61) of patients treated with Didronel 400 mg daily for 6 months. Table 2 lists adverse events reported in greater than or equal to 5% of risedronate sodium tablets-treated patients in Phase 3 Paget's disease trials. Adverse events shown are considered to be possibly or probably causally related in at least one patient. Table 2 Adverse Events Reported in greater than or equal to 5% of Risedronate Sodium-Treated PatientsConsidered to be possibly or probably causally related in at least one patient. in Phase 3 Paget's Disease Trials Body System 30 mg/day x 2 months Risedronate sodium % (N = 61) 400 mg/day x 6 months Didronel % (N = 61) Body as a Whole Flu Syndrome 9.8 1.6 Chest Pain 6.6 3.3 Gastrointestinal Diarrhea 19.7 14.8 Abdominal Pain 11.5 8.2 Nausea 9.8 9.8 Constipation 6.6 8.2 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Peripheral Edema 8.2 6.6 Musculoskeletal Arthralgia 32.8 29.5 Nervous Headache 18.0 16.4 Dizziness 6.6 4.9 Skin and Appendages Rash 11.5 8.2 Gastrointestinal Adverse Events: During the first year of the study (treatment and nontreatment follow-up), the proportion of patients who reported upper gastrointestinal adverse events was similar between the treatment groups; no patients reported severe upper gastrointestinal adverse events. The incidence of diarrhea was 19.7% in the risedronate sodium group and 14.8% in the Didronel group; none were serious or resulted in withdrawal. Ocular Adverse Events: Three patients who received risedronate sodium tablets 30 mg daily experienced acute iritis in 1 supportive study. All 3 patients recovered from their events; however, in 1 of these patients, the event recurred during risedronate sodium treatment and again during treatment with pamidronate. All patients were effectively treated with topical steroids. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because these adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity and skin reactions have been reported, including angioedema, generalized rash, bullous skin reactions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. Gastrointestinal Adverse Events Events involving upper gastrointestinal irritation, such as esophagitis and esophageal or gastric ulcers, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Musculoskeletal Pain Bone, joint, or muscle pain, described as severe or incapacitating, have been reported rarely [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Eye Inflammation Reactions of eye inflammation including iritis and uveitis have been reported rarely. Jaw Osteonecrosis Osteonecrosis of the jaw has been reported rarely [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Pulmonary Asthma exacerbations"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions to COUMADIN are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: -Hemorrhage [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Overdosage (10)] -Necrosis of skin and other tissues [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Systemic atheroemboli and cholesterol microemboli [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Other adverse reactions to COUMADIN include: -Immune system disorders: hypersensitivity/allergic reactions (including urticaria and anaphylactic reactions) -Vascular disorders: vasculitis -Hepatobiliary disorders: hepatitis, elevated liver enzymes. Cholestatic hepatitis has been associated with concomitant administration of COUMADIN and ticlopidine. -Gastrointestinal disorders: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, taste perversion, abdominal pain, flatulence, bloating -Skin disorders: rash, dermatitis (including bullous eruptions), pruritus, alopecia -Respiratory disorders: tracheal or tracheobronchial calcification -General disorders: chills Most common adverse reactions to COUMADIN are fatal and nonfatal hemorrhage from any tissue or organ. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs may interact with COUMADIN through pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic mechanisms. Pharmacodynamic mechanisms for drug interactions with COUMADIN are synergism (impaired hemostasis, reduced clotting factor synthesis), competitive antagonism (vitamin K), and alteration of the physiologic control loop for vitamin K metabolism (hereditary resistance). Pharmacokinetic mechanisms for drug interactions with COUMADIN are mainly enzyme induction, enzyme inhibition, and reduced plasma protein binding. It is important to note that some drugs may interact by more than one mechanism. More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping other drugs, including botanicals, or when changing dosages of other drugs, including drugs intended for short-term use (e.g., antibiotics, antifungals, corticosteroids) [see Boxed Warning]. Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COUMADIN or adverse reactions pertaining to bleeding. -Concomitant use of drugs that increase bleeding risk, antibiotics, antifungals, botanical (herbal) products, and inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9, 1A2, or 3A4 (7). -Consult labeling of all concurrently used drugs for complete information about interactions with COUMADIN or increased risks for bleeding. (7) 7.1 CYP450 Interactions CYP450 isozymes involved in the metabolism of warfarin include CYP2C9, 2C19, 2C8, 2C18, 1A2, and 3A4. The more potent warfarin S-enantiomer is metabolized by CYP2C9 while the R-enantiomer is metabolized by CYP1A2 and 3A4. -Inhibitors of CYP2C9, 1A2, and/or 3A4 have the potential to increase the effect (increase INR) of warfarin by increasing the exposure of warfarin. -Inducers of CYP2C9, 1A2, and/or 3A4 have the potential to decrease the effect (decrease INR) of warfarin by decreasing the exposure of warfarin. Examples of inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9, 1A2, and 3A4 are below in Table 2; however, this list should not be considered all-inclusive. Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about CYP450 interaction potential. The CYP450 inhibition and induction potential should be considered when starting, stopping, or changing dose of concomitant medications. Closely monitor INR if a concomitant drug is a CYP2C9, 1A2, and/or 3A4 inhibitor or inducer. Table 2: Examples of CYP450 Interactions with Warfarin Enzyme Inhibitors Inducers CYP2C9 amiodarone, capecitabine, cotrimoxazole, etravirine, fluconazole, fluvastatin, fluvoxamine, metronidazole, miconazole, oxandrolone, sulfinpyrazone, tigecycline, voriconazole, zafirlukast aprepitant, bosentan, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, rifampin CYP1A2 acyclovir, allopurinol, caffeine, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, disulfiram, enoxacin, famotidine, fluvoxamine, methoxsalen, mexiletine, norfloxacin, oral contraceptives, phenylpropanolamine, propafenone, propranolol, terbinafine, thiabendazole, ticlopidine, verapamil, zileuton montelukast, moricizine, omeprazole, phenobarbital, phenytoin, cigarette smoking CYP3A4 alprazolam, amiodarone, amlodipine, amprenavir, aprepitant, atorvastatin, atazanavir, bicalutamide, cilostazol, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darunavir/ritonavir, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, fosamprenavir, imatinib, indinavir, isoniazid, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, nilotinib, oral contraceptives, posaconazole, ranitidine, ranolazine, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, tipranavir, voriconazole, zileuton armodafinil, amprenavir, aprepitant, bosentan, carbamazepine, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin, phenytoin, pioglitazone, prednisone, rifampin, rufinamide 7.2 Drugs that Increase Bleeding Risk Examples of drugs known to increase the risk of bleeding are presented in Table 3. Because bleeding risk is increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with warfarin, closely monitor patients receiving any such drug with warfarin. Table 3: Drugs that Can Increase the Risk of Bleeding Drug Class Specific Drugs Anticoagulants argatroban, dabigatran, bivalirudin, desirudin, heparin, lepirudin Antiplatelet Agents aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, prasugrel, ticlopidine Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents celecoxib, diclofenac, diflunisal, fenoprofen, ibuprofen, indomethacin, ketoprofen, ketorolac, mefenamic acid, naproxen, oxaprozin, piroxicam, sulindac Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors citalopram, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, escitalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, milnacipran, paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine, vilazodone 7.3 Antibiotics and Antifungals There have been reports of changes in INR in patients taking warfarin and antibiotics or antifungals, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of these agents on plasma concentrations of warfarin. Closely monitor INR when starting or stopping any antibiotic or antifungal in patients taking warfarin. 7.4 Botanical (Herbal) Products and Foods More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping botanicals. Few adequate, well-controlled studies evaluating the potential for metabolic and/or pharmacologic interactions between botanicals and COUMADIN exist. Due to a lack of manufacturing standardization with botanical medicinal preparations, the amount of active ingredients may vary. This could further confound the ability to assess potential interactions and effects on anticoagulation. Some botanicals may cause bleeding events when taken alone (e.g., garlic and Ginkgo biloba) and may have anticoagulant, antiplatelet, and/or fibrinolytic properties. These effects would be expected to be additive to the anticoagulant effects of COUMADIN. Conversely, some botanicals may decrease the effects of COUMADIN (e.g., co-enzyme Q10, St. John's wort, ginseng). Some botanicals and foods can interact with COUMADIN through CYP450 interactions (e.g., echinacea, grapefruit juice, ginkgo, goldenseal, St. John's wort). The amount of vitamin K in food may affect therapy with COUMADIN. Advise patients taking COUMADIN to eat a normal, balanced diet maintaining a consistent amount of vitamin K. Patients taking COUMADIN should avoid drastic changes in dietary habits, such as eating large amounts of green leafy vegetables."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug-drug interaction studies were performed. Risedronate is not metabolized and does not induce or inhibit hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzymes (for example, Cytochrome P450). Calcium, antacids, or oral medications containing divalent cations interfere with the absorption of risedronate sodium (7.1) 7.1 Calcium Supplements/Antacids Co-administration of risedronate sodium tablets and calcium, antacids, or oral medications containing divalent cations will interfere with the absorption of risedronate sodium tablets. 7.2 Hormone Replacement Therapy One study of about 500 early postmenopausal women has been conducted to date in which treatment with risedronate sodium tablets 5 mg daily plus estrogen replacement therapy was compared to estrogen replacement therapy alone. Exposure to study drugs was approximately 12 to 18 months and the primary endpoint was change in BMD. If considered appropriate, risedronate sodium tablets may be used concomitantly with hormone replacement therapy. 7.3 Aspirin/Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Of over 5700 patients enrolled in the risedronate sodium tablets Phase 3 osteoporosis studies, aspirin use was reported by 31% of patients, 24% of whom were regular users (3 or more days per week). Forty-eight percent of patients reported NSAID use, 21% of whom were regular users. Among regular aspirin or NSAID users, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse experiences in placebo-treated patients (24.8%) was similar to that in risedronate sodium-treated patients (24.5%). 7.4 H2 Blockers and Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Of over 5700 patients enrolled in the risedronate sodium tablets Phase 3 osteoporosis studies, 21% used H2 blockers and/or PPIs. Among these patients, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal adverse experiences in the placebo-treated patients was similar to that in risedronate sodium-treated patients."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) -Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose might not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing OsmoPrep for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings (5)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each OsmoPrep dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the medication may not be absorbed properly."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Abdominal bloating, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting were the most common adverse events reported with the use of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets. Dizziness and headache were reported less frequently. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical studies. Table 2 shows the most common adverse events associated with the use of 48 grams of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, 60 grams of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, and 60 grams of Visicol in the colon preparation trials (n=931). Table 2: Frequency of Adverse Events of Any Severity Occurring in Greater than 3% of Patients in the Monobasic Sodium Phosphate and Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Tablets Trials Monobasic Sodium Phosphate and Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Tablets 32 tabs (48 g) N=272 Monobasic Sodium Phosphate and Dibasic Sodium Phosphate Tablets 40 tabs (60 g) N=265 Visicol 40 tabs (60 g) N=268 Bloating 31% 39% 41% Nausea 26% 37% 30% Abdominal pan 23% 24% 25% Vomiting 4% 10% 9% Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous System: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Abdominal bloating, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting were the most common adverse events reported with the use of OsmoPrep Tablets. Dizziness and headache were reported less frequently. Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of OsmoPrep, diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical studies. Table 2 shows the most common adverse events associated with the use of 48 grams of OsmoPrep, 60 grams of OsmoPrep, and 60 grams of Visicol in the colon preparation trials (n=931). Table 2: Frequency of Adverse Events of Any Severity Occurring in Greater Than 3% of Patients in the OsmoPrep Trials OsmoPrep 32 tabs (48 g) N=272 OsmoPrep 40 tabs (60 g) N=265 Visicol 40 tabs (60 g) N=268 Bloating 31% 39% 41% Nausea 26% 37% 30% Abdominal Pain 23% 24% 25% Vomiting 4% 10% 9% Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of OsmoPrep. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to OsmoPrep, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous system: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions involve the possibility of combined sodium and phosphorus intoxication from overdosage. Sodium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by the serum sodium level. Use with caution in patients with renal impairment, cirrhosis, cardiac failure or other edematous or sodium retaining states. Phosphorus intoxication results in a reduction of serum calcium, and the symptoms are those of hypocalcemic tetany. See WARNINGS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of phosphate intoxication. Phosphate intoxication results in a reduction of serum calcium and the symptoms are those of hypocalcemic tetany (see WARNINGS )."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions involve the possibility of phosphorus intoxication. Phosphorus intoxication results in a reduction of serum calcium and the symptoms are those of hypocalcemic tetany. See WARNINGS."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Bacterial and fungal corneal ulcers have developed during treatment with sulfonamide ophthalmic preparations. The most frequently reported reactions are local irritation, stinging and burning. Less commonly reported reactions include non-specific conjunctivitis, conjunctival hyperemia, secondary infections and allergic reactions. Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias (see WARNINGS)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System: blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Genitourinary: difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Respiratory: shortness of breath or trouble breathing Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mission Pharmacal at 1-800-845-7827 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch. Drug interactions - As a result of hyoscyamine's effects on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medication. Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics: May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Antimuscarinics: Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications. Antacids/antidiarrheals: Concurrent use may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness. Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine. Antimyasthenics: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility, therefore caution is recommended. Ketoconazole and hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH. Concurrent administration with hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketaconazole. Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects. Opioid (narcotic) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation. Sulfonamides: These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria. Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the methylene blue."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System: blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Genitourinary: difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Respiratory: shortness of breath or trouble breathing Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Stellar Pharmacal at 1-800-845-7827 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch. Drug interactions because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular: rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System: blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Genitourinary: difficulty micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal: dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Respiratory: shortness of breath or trouble breathing Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Star Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-800-845-7827 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch. Drug interactions because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid heartbeat, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or trouble breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea and vomiting"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Burel Pharmaceuticals, Inc at 1-601-706-9819 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular - rapid pulse, flushing Central Nervous System - blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness Respiratory - shortness of breath or troubled breathing Genitourinary - difficult micturition, acute urinary retention Gastrointestinal - dry mouth, nausea and vomiting Serious allergic reactions to this drug are rare. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including itching, rash, severe dizziness, swelling or trouble breathing. This medication can cause urine and sometimes stools to turn blue to blue-green. This effect is harmless and will subside after medication is stopped. Call your doctor or physician for medical advice about side effects. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Burel Pharmaceuticals, Inc at 1-601-706-9819 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088, www.fda.gov/medwatch. Drug Abuse And Dependence A dependence on the use of URAMIT MB(TM) has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients, abuse of URAMIT MB(TM) is not expected."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain and vomiting) may occur with phosphate therapy. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed (primarily from sodium or potassium): headaches; dizziness; mental confusion; seizures; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness or weakness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness of hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; fast or irregular heartbeat; shortness of breath or troubled breathing; swelling of feet or lower legs; unusual weight gain; low urine output; unusual thirst."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Gastrointestinal upset (diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, and vomiting) may occur with phosphate therapy. Also, bone and joint pain (possible phosphate-induced osteomalacia) could occur. The following adverse effects may be observed (primarily from sodium or potassium): headaches; dizziness; mental confusion; seizures; weakness or heaviness of legs; unusual tiredness or weakness; muscle cramps; numbness, tingling, pain or weakness of hands or feet; numbness or tingling around lips; fast or irregular heartbeat; shortness of breath or troubled breathing; swelling of feet or lower legs; unusual weight gain; low urine output; unusual thirst."$$
"Adverse Reactions In the phase 3 Visicol trials, bloating, nausea, abdominal pain, and vomiting were the most common drug-related adverse events reported with the use of Visicol (see Table 2). Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy of Visicol diarrhea was not defined as an adverse event in the clinical trials. Small superficial mucosal ulcerations, typical of those previously reported from the use of liquid preparations of sodium phosphate, and instances of mucosal bleeding have been observed on colonoscopy. No patient in the clinical studies developed predefined postural changes in vital signs with concomitant symptoms of lightheadedness or syncope. Table 2: Frequency of Drug-related* Adverse Events (>= 2%) of Patients in the Phase 3 Visicol Trials (Studies A and B) Visicol (R) %=n/N NuLYTELY (R) %=n/N * Drug-related were adverse events possibly or probably drug-related N=427 N=432 Bloating 47% 61% Nausea 35% 54% Abdominal Pain 30% 36% Vomiting 7% 18% Electrolyte Changes In Visicol trials, changes in serum electrolytes (including phosphate, calcium, potassium, and sodium) have been observed in patients taking Visicol Tablets. In the Visicol phase 3 trials, 96% and <1% of patients who took Visicol (60 grams) and NuLYTELY (up to 4 liters), respectively, developed hyperphosphatemia (defined as phosphate level > 4.7 mg/dL) on the day of the colonoscopy. In these trials, patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY had baseline mean phosphate levels of 3.3 and 3.4 mg/dL and subsequently developed on the day of the colonoscopy mean phosphate levels of 7.1 and 3.3 mg/dL, respectively. Two to three days after colonoscopy, 34%, 66%, and 0% of patients who received Visicol had (reactive) hypophosphatemia (defined as phosphate level < 2.4 mg/dL), normal phosphate levels, and hyperphosphatemia, respectively. Two to three days after colonoscopy, 3%, 96%, and 1% of patients who received NuLYTELY had (reactive) hypophosphatemia, normal phosphate levels, and hyperphosphatemia, respectively. Two to three days after colonoscopy, patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY had mean phosphate levels of 2.6 and 3.3 mg/dL, respectively. In the Visicol phase 3 trials, 47% and 9% of patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY, respectively, developed hypocalcemia (defined as calcium level < 8.6 mg/dL) on the day of the colonoscopy. The mean changes in calcium levels (from baseline) for the Visicol and NuLYTELY patients were -0.6 and -0.1 mg/dL, respectively. Furthermore, in these trials, 28% and 3% of patients who took Visicol and NuLYTELY, respectively, developed hypokalemia (defined as potassium level < 3.5 mEq/L) on the day of the colonoscopy. The mean changes in potassium levels (from baseline) for the Visicol and NuLYTELY patients were -0.5 and -0.1 mEq/L, respectively. None of the patients who developed hypocalcemia or hypokalemia in the trials required treatment. Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of Visicol. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting or causal connection to Visicol, or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphagia, paresthesia and swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias Nervous system: Seizures Renal: Renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glucosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic section). Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically, under each subsection) Allergic Reactions Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glucosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic section). Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the infusion, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with methylprednisolone or other corticosteroids: Allergic reactions : Allergic or hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular : Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic : Acne, allergic dermatitis, burning or tingling (especially in the perineal area after intravenous injection), cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine : Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances : Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal : Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic : Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal : Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, post-injection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric : Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic ). Ophthalmic : Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other : Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, injection site infections following non-sterile administration (see WARNINGS ), malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with methylprednisolone or other corticosteroids: Allergic reactions: Allergic or hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, burning or tingling (especially in the perineal area after intravenous injection), cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, post-injection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic ). Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, injection site infections following non-sterile administration (see WARNINGS ), malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported with SOLU-MEDROL or other corticosteroids: Allergic reactions: Allergic or hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, burning or tingling (especially in the perineal area after intravenous injection), cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS, Neurologic ). Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, injection site infections following non-sterile administration (see WARNINGS ), malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"Drug Interactions: Although the exact mechanism of this drug interaction is unknown, methylene blue inhibits the action of monoamine oxidase A\\342\\200\\224 an enzyme responsible for breaking down serotonin in the brain. It is believed that when methylene blue is given to patients taking serotonergic psychiatric medications, high levels of serotonin can build up in the brain, causing toxicity. This is referred to as Serotonin Syndrome. Signs and symptoms of Serotonin Syndrome include mental changes (confusion, hyperactivity, memory problems), muscle twitching, excessive sweating, shivering or shaking, diarrhea, trouble with coordination, and/or fever."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics \\342\\200\\213Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin-B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (eg, barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section).",$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin-B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (eg, barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Route administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination section)."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin) Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination )."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination )."$$
"Drug interactions because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue."$$
"Drug Interactions Concurrent use with thiazides may cause renal damage."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions - because of this product's effect on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, it may decrease the absorption of other oral medications during concurrent use such as: urinary alkalizers; thiazide diuretics (may cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde); antimuscarinics (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications); antacids/antidiarrheals (may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine, concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline, reducing effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde). Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine; antimyasthenics (concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility); ketoconazole (patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole); monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic side effects), opioid (narcotic analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation); sulfonamides (these drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine, increasing the danger of crystalluria). Patients should be advised that the urine may become blue to blue-green and the feces may be discolored as a result of the excretion of the Methylene blue."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications administered in close proximity to monobasic sodium phosphate and dibasic sodium phosphate tablets may not be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract due to the rapid intestinal peristalsis and watery diarrhea induced by the purgative agent."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications administered in close proximity to Visicol Tablets may not be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract due to the rapid intestinal peristalsis and watery diarrhea induced by the purgative agent."$$
"Drug Interactions Sulfacetamide preparations are incompatible with silver preparations."$$
"Drug Interactions: The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Calcium-containing preparations and/or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia. Potassium-containing medication or potassium-sparing diuretics may cause hyperkalemia. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals."$$
"Drug Interactions The use of antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, or calcium in conjunction with phosphate preparations may bind the phosphate and prevent its absorption. Concurrent use of antihypertensives, especially diazoxide, guanethidine, hydralazine, methyldopa, or rauwolfia alkaloid; or corticosteroids, especially mineralocorticoids or corticotropin, with sodium phosphate may result in hypernatremia. Calciumcontaining preparations and/or Vitamin D may antagonize the effects of phosphates in the treatment of hypercalcemia. Potassium-containing medications or potassium-sparingdiuretics may cause hyperkalemia. Patients should have serum potassium level determinations at periodic intervals."$$
