"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Radiation-induced thyroiditis: may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism; Consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medications. (5.1) Thyroid enlargement, including that due to stimulating hormone concomitant therapy, may obstruct structures in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk. (5.2) Multiple non-thyroid radiation toxicities have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy, including increased risks for neoplasia, hematopoietic suppression, and fetal or reproductive toxicity. Individualize dosage, verify absence of pregnancy, monitor patients for toxicity, and advise patients on contraceptive use. (5.3, 5.5, 5.6) 5.1 Radiation-induced Thyroiditis Sodium iodide I-131 may cause thyroiditis with gland enlargement and release of thyroid hormone, particularly when used to treat hyperthyroidism. The thyroiditis may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism and may cause thyroid storm. When treating hyperthyroidism, consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medication to help deplete the thyroid hormone content within the gland. Discontinue the anti-thyroid medication at least three days before administration of sodium iodide I-131. Consider beta-blocker therapy before administration of sodium iodide I-131 to minimize the risk of hyperthyroidism and thyroid storm. 5.2 Thyroid-stimulating Hormone (TSH) and Thyroid Enlargement Enhanced TSH secretion, e.g., following discontinuation of anti-thyroid medications, or the administration of TSH to enhance sodium iodide I-131 uptake, may cause thyroid enlargement and obstructive complications of the trachea, esophagus, or blood vessels in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk of obstructive complications before preparative treatments known to cause thyroid enlargement. 5.3 Radiation-induced Toxicities Radiation-induced toxicities, including dose-dependent fatalities, have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Post-marketing reports have identified an increased risk for neoplasia, as well as risks for hematopoietic suppression. Salivary and lacrimal gland toxicity is relatively common and may manifest as conjunctivitis, xerophthalmia, epiphora, sialadenitis and xerostomia [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash and hives, have been reported following administration of sodium iodide I-131. Sodium iodide I-131 solution contains sodium bisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. During the pre-therapy assessment, question patients about a history of hypersensitivity to sulfite [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.5 Fetal Risk Transplacental passage of sodium iodide I-131 can cause severe and possibly irreversible hypothyroidism in neonates [see Contraindications (4)]. Females and Males of Childbearing Potential When planning sodium iodide I-131 therapy for women of childbearing potential, obtain a pregnancy test and verify the absence of a pregnancy. Advise women and men of childbearing potential to use two effective methods of contraception to avoid pregnancy for at least six months after sodium iodide I-131 administration. Advise patients of the potential need to use two effective forms of contraception to avoid pregnancy for an even longer period of time (e.g., one year) if additional sodium iodide I-131 therapy or radionuclide imaging is anticipated. 5.6 Transient Infertility Transient, dose-related impairment of testicular function has been reported after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Consider sperm banking for men who are anticipated to receive a high cumulative sodium iodide I-131 dose (e.g., greater than 14 GBq). In females, transient ovarian failure has been observed after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. 5.7 Radiation Exposure Risk to Other Individuals Unwanted radiation exposure can occur from handling and administration of radiopharmaceuticals or from contaminated waste products, including urine and feces. Follow safe administration instructions to minimize unnecessary radiation exposure to patients and health care workers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Instruct patients on how to reduce unnecessary radiation exposure to others, especially family members following treatment. Review the most recent professional society guidelines and publications that describe the procedures for the safe use of sodium iodide I-131 therapy to minimize radiation toxicity risks to patients, radiation exposure risks to other individuals, and environmental radiation contamination risks.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Radiation-induced thyroiditis: may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism; Consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medications. (5.1) Thyroid enlargement, including that due to stimulating hormone concomitant therapy, may obstruct structures in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk. (5.2) Multiple non-thyroid radiation toxicities have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy, including increased risks for neoplasia, hematopoietic suppression, and fetal or reproductive toxicity. Individualize dosage, verify absence of pregnancy, monitor patients for toxicity, and advise patients on contraceptive use. (5.3, 5.5, 5.6) 5.1 Radiation-induced Thyroiditis Sodium iodide I-131 may cause thyroiditis with gland enlargement and release of thyroid hormone, particularly when used to treat hyperthyroidism. The thyroiditis may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism and may cause thyroid storm. When treating hyperthyroidism, consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medication to help deplete the thyroid hormone content within the gland. Discontinue the anti-thyroid medication at least three days before administration of sodium iodide I-131. Consider beta-blocker therapy before administration of sodium iodide I-131 to minimize the risk of hyperthyroidism and thyroid storm. 5.2 Thyroid-stimulating Hormone (TSH) and Thyroid Enlargement Enhanced TSH secretion, e.g., following discontinuation of anti-thyroid medications, or the administration of TSH to enhance sodium iodide I-131 uptake, may cause thyroid enlargement and obstructive complications of the trachea, esophagus, or blood vessels in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk of obstructive complications before preparative treatments known to cause thyroid enlargement. 5.3 Radiation-induced Toxicities Radiation-induced toxicities, including dose-dependent fatalities, have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Post-marketing reports have identified an increased risk for neoplasia, as well as risks for hematopoietic suppression. Salivary and lacrimal gland toxicity is relatively common and may manifest as conjunctivitis, xerophthalmia, epiphora, sialadenitis and xerostomia [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash and hives, have been reported following administration of sodium iodide I-131. Sodium Iodide I 131 Solution contains sodium bisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. During the pre-therapy assessment, question patients about a history of hypersensitivity to sulfite [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.5 Fetal Risk Transplacental passage of sodium iodide I-131 can cause severe and possibly irreversible hypothyroidism in neonates [see Contraindications (4)]. Females and Males of Childbearing Potential When planning sodium iodide I-131 therapy for women of childbearing potential, obtain a pregnancy test and verify the absence of a pregnancy. Advise women and men of childbearing potential to use two effective methods of contraception to avoid pregnancy for at least six months after sodium iodide I-131 administration. Advise patients of the potential need to use two effective forms of contraception to avoid pregnancy for an even longer period of time (e.g., one year) if additional sodium iodide I-131 therapy or radionuclide imaging is anticipated. 5.6 Transient Infertility Transient, dose-related impairment of testicular function has been reported after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Consider sperm banking for men who are anticipated to receive a high cumulative sodium iodide I-131 dose (e.g., greater than 14 GBq). In females, transient ovarian failure has been observed after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. 5.7 Radiation Exposure Risk to Other Individuals Unwanted radiation exposure can occur from handling and administration of radiopharmaceuticals or from contaminated waste products, including urine and feces. Follow safe administration instructions to minimize unnecessary radiation exposure to patients and health care workers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Instruct patients on how to reduce unnecessary radiation exposure to others, especially family members following treatment. Review the most recent professional society guidelines and publications that describe the procedures for the safe use of sodium iodide I-131 therapy to minimize radiation toxicity risks to patients, radiation exposure risks to other individuals, and environmental radiation contamination risks.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Radiation-induced thyroiditis: may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism; consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medications. (5.1) Thyroid enlargement, including that due to thyroid stimulating hormone concomitant therapy, may obstruct structures in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk. (5.2) Multiple non-thyroid radiation toxicities have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy, including increased risks for neoplasia, hematopoietic suppression, and fetal or reproductive toxicity. Individualize dosage, verify absence of pregnancy, monitor patients for toxicity, and advise patients on contraceptive use. (5.3, 5.5, 5.6) 5.1 Radiation-induced Thyroiditis Sodium iodide I-131 may cause thyroiditis with gland enlargement and release of thyroid hormone, particularly when used to treat hyperthyroidism. The thyroiditis may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism, and may cause thyroid storm. When treating hyperthyroidism, consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medication to help deplete the thyroid hormone content within the gland. Discontinue the anti-thyroid medication at least three days before administration of sodium iodide I-131. Consider beta-blocker therapy before administration of sodium iodide I-131 to minimize the risk of hyperthyroidism and thyroid storm. 5.2 Thyroid-stimulating Hormone (TSH) and Thyroid Enlargement Enhanced TSH secretion, e.g., following discontinuation of anti-thyroid medications, or the administration of TSH to enhance sodium iodide I-131 uptake, may cause thyroid enlargement and obstructive complications of the trachea, esophagus, or blood vessels in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk of obstructive complications before preparative treatments known to cause thyroid enlargement. 5.3 Radiation-induced Toxicities Radiation-induced toxicities, including dose-dependent fatalities, have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Post-marketing reports have identified an increased risk for neoplasia, as well as risks for hematopoietic suppression. Salivary and lacrimal gland toxicity is relatively common and may manifest as conjunctivitis, xerophthalmia, epiphora, sialadenitis and xerostomia [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash and hives have been reported following administration of sodium iodide I-131. Sodium iodide I-131 capsules may contain sodium bisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. During the pre-therapy assessment, question patients about a history of hypersensitivity to sulfite [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. 5.5 Fetal Risk Transplacental passage of sodium iodide I-131 can cause severe and possibly irreversible hypothyroidism in neonates [see Contraindications (4)]. Females and Males of Childbearing Potential When planning sodium iodide I-131 therapy for women of childbearing potential, obtain a pregnancy test and verify the absence of a pregnancy before initiating treatment. Advise women and men of childbearing potential to use two effective methods of contraception to avoid pregnancy for at least six months after sodium iodide I-131 administration. Advise patients of the potential need to use two effective methods of contraception to avoid pregnancy for an even longer period of time (e.g., one year) if additional sodium iodide I-131 therapy or radionuclide imaging is anticipated. 5.6 Transient Infertility Transient, dose-related impairment of testicular function has been reported after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Consider sperm banking for men who are anticipated to receive a high cumulative sodium iodide I-131 dose (e.g., greater than 14 GBq). In females, transient ovarian failure has been observed after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. 5.7 Radiation Exposure Risk to Other Individuals Unwanted radiation exposure can occur from handling and administration of radiopharmaceuticals or from contaminated waste products, including urine and feces. Follow safe administration instructions to minimize unnecessary radiation exposure to patients and health care workers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Instruct patients on how to reduce unnecessary radiation exposure to others, especially family members following treatment. Review the most recent professional society guidelines and publications that describe the procedures for the safe use of sodium iodide I-131 therapy to minimize radiation toxicity risks to patients, radiation exposure risks to other individuals, and environmental radiation contamination risks.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Radiation-induced thyroiditis: may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism; consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medications. (5.1) Thyroid enlargement, including that due to thyroid stimulating hormone concomitant therapy, may obstruct structures in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk. (5.2) Multiple non-thyroid radiation toxicities have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy, including increased risks for neoplasia, hematopoietic suppression, and fetal or reproductive toxicity. Individualize dosage, verify absence of pregnancy, monitor patients for toxicity, and advise patients on contraceptive use. (5.3, 5.5, 5.6) 5.1 Radiation-induced Thyroiditis Sodium iodide I-131 may cause thyroiditis with gland enlargement and release of thyroid hormone, particularly when used to treat hyperthyroidism. The thyroiditis may cause or worsen hyperthyroidism, and may cause thyroid storm. When treating hyperthyroidism, consider pre-treatment with anti-thyroid medication to help deplete the thyroid hormone content within the gland. Discontinue the anti-thyroid medication at least three days before administration of sodium iodide I-131. Consider beta-blocker therapy before administration of sodium iodide I-131 to minimize the risk of hyperthyroidism and thyroid storm. 5.2 Thyroid-stimulating Hormone (TSH) and Thyroid Enlargement Enhanced TSH secretion, e.g., following discontinuation of anti-thyroid medications, or the administration of TSH to enhance sodium iodide I-131 uptake, may cause thyroid enlargement and obstructive complications of the trachea, esophagus, or blood vessels in the neck. Evaluate patients at high risk of obstructive complications before preparative treatments known to cause thyroid enlargement. 5.3 Radiation-induced Toxicities Radiation-induced toxicities, including dose-dependent fatalities, have been reported following sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Post-marketing reports have identified an increased risk for neoplasia, as well as risks for hematopoietic suppression. Salivary and lacrimal gland toxicity is relatively common and may manifest as conjunctivitis, xerophthalmia, epiphora, sialadenitis and xerostomia [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including rash and hives have been reported following administration of sodium iodide I-131. Sodium Iodide I 131 Capsules may contain sodium bisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. During the pre-therapy assessment, question patients about a history of hypersensitivity to sulfite [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. 5.5 Fetal Risk Transplacental passage of sodium iodide I-131 can cause severe and possibly irreversible hypothyroidism in neonates [see Contraindications (4)]. Females and Males of Childbearing Potential When planning sodium iodide I-131 therapy for women of childbearing potential, obtain a pregnancy test and verify the absence of a pregnancy before initiating treatment. Advise women and men of childbearing potential to use two effective methods of contraception to avoid pregnancy for at least six months after sodium iodide I-131 administration. Advise patients of the potential need to use two effective methods of contraception to avoid pregnancy for an even longer period of time (e.g., one year) if additional sodium iodide I-131 therapy or radionuclide imaging is anticipated. 5.6 Transient Infertility Transient, dose-related impairment of testicular function has been reported after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. Consider sperm banking for men who are anticipated to receive a high cumulative sodium iodide I-131 dose (e.g., greater than 14 GBq). In females, transient ovarian failure has been observed after sodium iodide I-131 therapy. 5.7 Radiation Exposure Risk to Other Individuals Unwanted radiation exposure can occur from handling and administration of radiopharmaceuticals or from contaminated waste products, including urine and feces. Follow safe administration instructions to minimize unnecessary radiation exposure to patients and health care workers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Instruct patients on how to reduce unnecessary radiation exposure to others, especially family members following treatment. Review the most recent professional society guidelines and publications that describe the procedures for the safe use of sodium iodide I-131 therapy to minimize radiation toxicity risks to patients, radiation exposure risks to other individuals, and environmental radiation contamination risks.",$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling: Radiation-induced Thyroiditis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Thyroid-stimulating Hormone and Thyroid Enlargement [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Radiation-induced Toxicities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Fetal Risk [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Transient Infertility [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Radiation Exposure to Other Individuals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Radiation-related adverse reactions are a function of the dose level received by the patient. The following adverse reactions have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of benign disease, such as hyperthyroidism: Gastrointestinal disorders: sialadenitis Cardiac disorders: chest pain and tachycardia Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: iododerma, itching skin, rash, and hives Endocrine disorders: hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxic crisis, hypoparathyroidism General disorders and administration site conditions: local swelling The following adverse reactions have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of malignant disease: Blood and lymphatic system disorders including fatalities: radiation sickness, bone marrow depression, anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, and blood dyscrasia Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps): leukemia and solid cancers Eye disorders: lacrimal gland dysfunction Gastrointestinal disorders: salivary gland dysfunction, nausea, vomiting Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: congenital hypothyroidism and chromosomal abnormalities Adverse reactions that occur after treatment of benign disease may also occur after treatment of malignant disease. Tenderness, pain on swallowing, sore throat, and cough have been reported, generally around the third day after sodium iodide I-131 administration. Adverse reactions that have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of benign disease include sialadenitis, chest pain, tachycardia, iododerma, itching skin, rash, hives, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxic crisis, hypoparathyroidism, and local swelling. (6) Adverse reactions that have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of malignant disease include radiation sickness, bone marrow depression, anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, blood dyscrasia, leukemia, solid cancers, lacrimal gland dysfunction, salivary gland dysfunction, congenital hypothyroidism, and chromosomal abnormalities. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Mallinckrodt Inc. at 1-888-744-1414 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling: Radiation-induced Thyroiditis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Thyroid-stimulating Hormone and Thyroid Enlargement [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Radiation-induced Toxicities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Fetal Risk [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Transient Infertility [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Radiation Exposure to Other Individuals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Radiation-related adverse reactions are a function of the dose level received by the patient. The following adverse reactions have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of benign disease, such as hyperthyroidism: Gastrointestinal disorders: sialadenitis Cardiac disorders: chest pain and tachycardia Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: iododerma, itching skin, rash, and hives Endocrine disorders: hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxic crisis, hypoparathyroidism General disorders and administration site conditions: local swelling The following adverse reactions have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of malignant disease: Blood and lymphatic system disorders including fatalities: radiation sickness, bone marrow depression, anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, and blood dyscrasia Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps): leukemia and solid cancers Eye disorders: lacrimal gland dysfunction Gastrointestinal disorders: salivary gland dysfunction, nausea, vomiting Congenital, familial and genetic disorders: congenital hypothyroidism and chromosomal abnormalities Nervous System Disorders: *Cerebral edema Pulmonary Disorders : **Radiation pneumonitis, **Pulmonary fibrosis * In patients with iodine-avid brain metastases ** In patients with iodine-avid lung metastases Adverse reactions that occur after treatment of benign disease may also occur after treatment of malignant disease. Tenderness, pain on swallowing, sore throat, and cough have been reported, generally around the third day after sodium iodide I-131 administration. Adverse reactions that have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of benign disease include sialadenitis, chest pain, tachycardia, iododerma, itching skin, rash, hives, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxic crisis, hypoparathyroidism, and local swelling. (6) Adverse reactions that have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of malignant disease include radiation sickness, bone marrow depression, anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, blood dyscrasia, leukemia, solid cancers, lacrimal gland dysfunction, salivary gland dysfunction, congenital hypothyroidism, chromosomal abnormalities, cerebral edema, radiation pneumonitis, and pulmonary fibrosis. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS contact Mallinckrodt Inc. at 1-888-744-1414 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Many pharmacologic agents interact with sodium iodide I-131. These agents may affect the iodide protein binding and alter the iodide pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Table 3. Drug Interactions Substance Average Duration of Effect Anti-thyroid drugs e.g., carbimazole, propylthiouracil 5 days Natural or synthetic thyroid hormone e.g., thyroxine tri-iodothyronine 4 weeks 2 weeks Iodine-containing medications e.g., amiodarone expectorants, vitamins 4 weeks 2 weeks Topical iodide 1-9 months X-ray contrast agents iodine-containing agents Up to 1 year Other drugs anticoagulants, antihistamines corticosteroids, sulfonamides tolbutamide, perchlorate phenylbutazone lithium 1 week 1 week 1 week 1-2 weeks 4 weeks Many pharmacologic agents are known to interact with radioiodide. See full prescribing information complete list. (7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse events associated with the class of Sodium Iodide I-131 drug product include hypersensitivity reactions, radiation toxicities, and metabolic events. Immediate adverse reactions typically are related to hypersensitivity; e.g., anaphylaxis, rash, hives, bronchospasm, and other allergic events. Radiation adverse events related to the dose include the following: Bone marrow depression, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, acute leukemia, anemia, blood dyscrasia, chromosomal abnormalities, radiation sickness, and death. Delayed radiation toxicity includes radiation thyroiditis, gastritis and sialadentis. Metabolic adverse events include hypothyroidism and exaggerated hyperthyroidism due to radiation thyroiditis. Tenderness and swelling of the neck, pain on swallowing, sore throat and cough may occur about the 3rd day after treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with levothyroxine therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage (see and ). They include the following: fatigue, increased appetite, weight loss, heat intolerance, fever, excessive sweating; headache, hyperactivity, nervousness, anxiety, irritability, emotional lability, insomnia; tremors, muscle weakness; palpitations, tachycardia, arrhythmias, increased pulse and blood pressure, heart failure, angina, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest; dyspnea; diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal cramps and elevations in liver function tests; hair loss, flushing; decreased bone mineral density; menstrual irregularities, impaired fertility. PRECAUTIONS OVERDOSAGE General: Central nervous system: Musculoskeletal: Cardiovascular: Respiratory: Gastrointestinal: Dermatologic: Endocrine: Reproductive: Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphyses have been reported in children receiving levothyroxine therapy. Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants and premature closure of the epiphyses in children with resultant compromised adult height. Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy. Inadequate levothyroxine dosage will produce or fail to ameliorate the signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism. Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products. These include urticaria, pruritus, skin rash, flushing, angioedema, various GI symptoms (abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea), fever, arthralgia, serum sickness and wheezing. Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with levothyroxine therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage (see and ). They include the following: PRECAUTIONS OVERDOSAGE fatigue, increased appetite, weight loss, heat intolerance, fever, excessive sweating; General: headache, hyperactivity, nervousness, anxiety, irritability, emotional lability, insomnia; Central nervous system: tremors, muscle weakness; Musculoskeletal: palpitations, tachycardia, arrhythmias, increased pulse and blood pressure, heart failure, angina, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest; Cardiovascular: dyspnea; Respiratory: diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal cramps and elevation in liver function tests; Gastrointestinal: hair loss; flushing; Dermatologic: decreased bone mineral density; Endocrine: menstrual irregularities, impaired fertility. Reproductive: Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in children receiving levothyroxine therapy. Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants and premature closure of the epiphyses in children with resultant compromised height. Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy. Inadequate levothyroxine dosage will produce or fail to ameliorate the signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism. Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products. These include urticaria, pruritus, skin rash, flushing, angioedema, various Gl symptoms (abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea), fever, arthralgia, serum sickness and wheezing. Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare, reactions associated with the administration of iodine containing radiopharmaceuticals for diagnostic use include, in decreasing order of frequency, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, tachycardia, itching skin, rash and hives."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare, reactions associated with the administration of sodium iodide isotopes for diagnostic use include, in decreasing order of frequency, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, tachycardia, itching skin, rash and hives."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare, reactions associated with the administration of Sodium Iodide isotopes for diagnostic use include, in decreasing order of frequency, nausea, vomiting, chest pain, tachycardia, itching skin, rash and hives."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS None Reported"$$
"Drug Interactions Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP. In addition, thyroid hormones and thyroid status have varied effects on the pharmacokinetics and action of other drugs. A listing of drug-thyroidal axis interactions is contained in Table 2. The list of drug-thyroidal axis interactions in Table 2 may not be comprehensive due to the introduction of new drugs that interact with the thyroidal axis or the discovery of previously unknown interactions. The prescriber should be aware of this fact and should consult appropriate reference sources (e.g., package inserts of newly approved drugs, medical literature) for additional information if a drug-drug interaction with levothyroxine is suspected. Table 2: Drug-Thyroidal Axis Interactions Drug or Drug Class Effect Drugs that may reduce TSH secretion - the reduction is not sustained; therefore, hypothyroidism does not occur Dopamine/Dopamine Agonists Glucocorticoids Octreotide Use of these agents may result in a transient reduction in TSH secretion when administered at the following doses: dopamine ( >= 1 mcg/kg/min); Glucocorticoids (hydrocortisone >= 100 mg/day or equivalent); Octreotide ( > 100 mcg/day). Drugs that alter thyroid hormone secretion Drugs that may decrease thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hypothyroidism Aminoglutethimide Amiodarone Iodide (including iodine-containing Radiographic contrast agents) Lithium Methimazole Propylthioracil (PTU) Sulfonamides Tolbutamide Long-term lithium therapy can result in goiter in up to 50% of patients, and either subclinical or overt hypothyroidism, each in up to 20% of patients. The fetus, neonate, elderly and euthyroid patients with underlying thyroid disease (e.g., Hashimoto's thyroiditis or with Grave's disease previously treated with radioiodine or surgery) are among those individuals who are particularly susceptible to iodine-induced hypothyroidism. Oral cholecystographic agents and amiodarone are slowly excreted, producing more prolonged hypothyroidism than parenterally administered iodinated contrast agents. Long-term amino-glu-tethimide therapy may minimally decrease T and T levels and increase TSH, although all values remain within normal limits in most patients. 4 3 Drugs that may increase thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hyperthyroidism Amiodarone Iodide (including iodine-containing Radiographic contrast agents) Iodide and drugs that contain pharmacologic amounts of iodide may cause hyperthyroidism in euthyroid patients with Grave's disease previously treated with antithyroid drugs or in euthyroid patients with thyroid autonomy (e.g., multinodular goiter or hyper functioning thyroid adenoma). Hyperthyroidism may develop over several weeks and may persist for several months after therapy discontinuation. Amiodarone may induce hyperthyroidism by causing thyroiditis. Drugs that may decrease T 4 absorption, which may result in hypothyroidism Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Bile Acid Sequestrants - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Calcium Carbonate Cation Exchange Resins - Kayexalate Ferrous Sulfate Orlistat Sucralfate Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine, and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine should be monitored for changes in thyroid function. Drugs that may alter T 4 and T 3 serum transport - but FT 4 concentration remains normal; and, therefore, the patient remains euthyroid Drugs that may increase serum TBG concentration Drugs that may decrease serum TBG concentration Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow-Release Nicotinic Acid Drugs that may cause protein-binding site displacement Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non Steroidal Anti-lnflammatory Drugs - Fenamates - Phenylbutazone Salicylates ( > 2 g/day) Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT . Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T and normal FT and TSH concentrations and, therefore, patients are clinically euthyroid. Salicylates inhibit binding of T and T to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT , is followed by return of FT to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total-T levels may decrease by as much as 30%. 4 4 4 4 3 4 4 4 Drugs that may alter T 4 and T 3 metabolism Drugs that may increase hepatic metabolism, which may result in hypothyroidism Carbamazepine Hydantoins Phenobarbital Rifampin Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased Ievothyroxine requirements. Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total- and free-T may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. 4 Drugs that may decrease T 4 5' - deiodinase activity Amiodarone Beta-adrenergic antagonists - (e.g., Propranolol > 160 mg/day) Glucocorticoids -(e.g., Dexamethasone >= 4 mg/day) Propylthiouracil (PTU) Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decrease the peripheral conversion of T to T , leading to decreased T levels. However, serum T levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased. In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg/day), T and T levels change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. It should be noted that actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T levels. However, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T and T levels due to decreased TBG production (see above). 4 3 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 Miscellaneous Anticoagulants (oral) - Coumarin Derivatives - Indandione Derivatives Thyroid hormones appear to increase the catabolism of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, thereby increasing the anticoagulant activity of oral anticoagulants. Concomitant use of these agents impairs the compensatory increases in clotting factor synthesis. Prothrombin time should be carefully monitored in patients taking levothyroxine and oral anticoagulants and the dose of anticoagulant therapy adjusted accordingly. Antidepressants - Tricyclics (e.g., Amitriptyline) - Tetracyclics (e.g., Maprotiline) - Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs; e.g., Sertraline) Concurrent use of tri/tetracyclic antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines.Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and CNS stimulation; onset of action of tricyclics may be accelerated. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements. Antidiabetic Agents - Biguanides - Meglitinides - Sulfonylureas - Thiazolidediones - Insulin Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Careful monitoring of diabetic control is recommended, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued. Cardiac Glycosides Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be reduced in hyperthyroidism or when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Therapeutic effect of digitalis glycosides may be reduced. Cytokines - Interferon-\\316\\261 - Interleukin-2 Therapy with interferon-\\316\\261 has been associated with the development of antithyroid microsomal antibodies in 20% of patients and some have transient hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, or both. Patients who have antithyroid antibodies before treatment are at higher risk for thyroid dysfunction during treatment. Interleukin-2 has been associated with transient painless thyroiditis in 20% of patients. Interferon-\\316\\262 and -\\316\\263 have not been reported to cause thyroid dysfunction. Growth Hormones - Somatrem - Somatropin Excessive use of thyroid hormones with growth hormones may accelerate epiphyseal closure. However, untreated hypothyroidism may interfere with growth response to growth hormone. Ketamine Concurrent use may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia; cautious administration to patients receiving thyroid hormone therapy is recommended. Methylxanthine Bronchodilators - (e.g., Theophylline) Decreased theophylline clearance may occur in hypothyroid patients; clearance returns to normal when the euthyroid state is achieved. Radiographic Agents Thyroid hormones may reduce the uptake of I, I, and Tc. 123 131 99m Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease. Chloral Hydrate Diazepam Ethionamide Lovastatin Metoclopramide 6-Mercaptopurine Nitroprusside Para-aminosalicylate sodium Perphenazine Resorcinol (excessive topical use) Thiazide Diuretics These agents have been associated with thyroid hormone and/or TSH level alterations by various mechanisms. - Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP dose is increased. Prothrombin time should be closely monitored to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments (see ). Oral anticoagulants Table 2 - The therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides may be reduced by levothyroxine. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides (see ). Digitalis glycosides Table 2"$$
"Drug Interactions Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP. In addition, thyroid hormones and thyroid status have varied effects on the pharmacokinetics and actions of other drugs. A listing of drug-thyroidal axis interactions is contained in Table 2. The list of drug-thyroidal axis interactions in Table 2 may not be comprehensive due to the introduction of new drugs that interact with the thyroidal axis or the discovery of previously unknown interactions. The prescriber should be aware of this fact and should consult appropriate reference sources (e.g., package inserts of newly approved drugs, medical literature) for additional information if a drug-drug interaction with levothyroxine is suspected. Table 2: Drug-Thyroidal Axis Interactions Drug or Drug Class Effect Drugs that may reduce TSH secretion-the reduction is not sustained; therefore, hypothyroidism does not occur Dopamine / Dopamine Agonists Glucocorticoids Octreotide Use of these agents may result in a transient reduction in TSH secretion when administered at the following doses: Dopamine ( >= 1 \\302\\265g/kg/min); Glucocorticoids (hydrocortisone >= 100 mg/day or equivalent); Octreotide ( > 100 \\302\\265g/day). Drugs that alter thyroid hormone secretion Drugs that may decrease thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hypothyroidism Aminoglutethimide Amiodarone Iodide(including iodine-containing Radiographic contrast agents) Lithium Methimazole Propylthiouracil (PTU) Sulfonamides Tolbutamide Long-term lithium therapy can result in goiter in up to 50% of patients, and either subclinical or overt hypothyroidism, each in up to 20% of patients. The fetus, neonate, elderly and euthyroid patients with underlying thyroid disease (e.g., Hashimoto's thyroiditis or with Grave's disease previously treated with radioiodine or surgery) are among those individuals who are particularly susceptible to iodine-induced hypothyroidism. Oral cholecystographic agents and amiodarone are slowly excreted, producing more prolonged hypothyroidism than parenterally administered iodinated contrast agents. Long-term aminoglutethimide therapy may minimally decrease T and T levels and increase TSH, although all values remain within normal limits in most patients. 4 3 Drugs that may increase thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hyperthyroidism Amiodarone Iodide(including iodine-containing Radiographic contrast agents) Iodide and drugs that contain pharmacological amounts of iodide may cause hyperthyroidism in euthyroid patients with Grave's disease previously treated with antithyroid drugs or in euthyroid patients with thyroid autonomy (e.g., multinodular goiter or hyperfunctioning thyroid adenoma). Hyperthyroidism may develop over several weeks and may persist for several months after therapy discontinuation. Amiodarone may induce hyperthyroidism by causing thyroiditis. Drugs that may decrease T 4 absorption, which may result in hypothyroidism Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Bile Acid Sequestrants - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Calcium Carbonate Cation Exchange Resins - Kayexalate Ferrous Sulfate Orlistat Sucralfate Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine, and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine should be monitored for changes in thyroid function. Drugs that may alter T 4 and T 3 serum transport - but FT 4 concentration remains normal; and, therefore, the patient remains euthyroid Drugs that may increase serum TBG concentration Drugs that may decrease serum TBG concentration Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow-Release Nicotinic Acid Drugs that may cause protein-binding site displacement Furosemide (> 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates - Phenylbutazone Salicylates (> 2 g/day) Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT . Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T , and normal FT and TSH concentrations and, therefore, patients are clinically euthyroid. Salicylates inhibit binding of T and T to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT is followed by return of FT to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total-T levels may decrease by as much as 30%. 4 4 4 4 3 4 4 4 Drugs that may alter T 4 and T 3 metabolism Drugs that may increase hepatic metabolism, which may result in hypothyroidism Carbamazepine Hydantoins Phenobarbital Rifampin Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased levothyroxine requirements. Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total- and free-T may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. 4 Drugs that may decrease T 4 5'-deiodinase activity Amiodarone Beta-adrenergic antagonists - (e.g., Propranolol > 160 mg/day) Glucocorticoids - (e.g., Dexamethasone >= 4 mg/day) Propylthiouracil (PTU) Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T to T , leading to decreased T levels. However, serum T levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased. In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (> 160 mg/day), T and T levels change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. It should be noted that actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T levels. However, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T and T levels due to decreased TBG production (see above). 4 3 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 Miscellaneous Anticoagulants (oral) - Coumarin Derivatives - Indandione Derivatives Thyroid hormones appear to increase the catabolism of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, thereby increasing the anticoagulant activity of oral anticoagulants. Concomitant use of these agents impairs the compensatory increases in clotting factor synthesis. Prothrombin time should be carefully monitored in patients taking levothyroxine and oral anticoagulants and the dose of anticoagulant therapy adjusted accordingly. Antidepressants - Tricyclics (e.g., Amitriptyline) - Tetracyclics (e.g., Maprotiline) - Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs; e.g., Sertraline) Concurrent use of tri/tetracyclic antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and CNS stimulation; onset of action of tricyclics may be accelerated. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements. Antidiabetic Agents - Biguanides - Meglitinides - Sulfonylureas - Thiazolidinediones - Insulin Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Careful monitoring of diabetic control is recommended, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued. Cardiac Glycosides Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be reduced in hyperthyroidism or when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Therapeutic effect of digitalis glycosides may be reduced. Cytokines - Interferon-\\316\\261 - Interleukin-2 Therapy with interferon-\\316\\261 has been associated with the development of antithyroid microsomal antibodies in 20% of patients and some have transient hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, or both. Patients who have antithyroid antibodies before treatment are at higher risk for thyroid dysfunction during treatment. Interleukin-2 has been associated with transient painless thyroiditis in 20% of patients. Interferon-\\316\\262 and -\\316\\263 have not been reported to cause thyroid dysfunction. Growth Hormones - Somatrem - Somatropin Excessive use of thyroid hormones with growth hormones may accelerate epiphyseal closure. However, untreated hypothyroidism may interfere with growth response to growth hormone. Ketamine Concurrent use may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia; cautious administration to patients receiving thyroid hormone therapy is recommended. Methylxanthine Bronchodilators - (e.g., Theophylline) Decreased theophylline clearance may occur in hypothyroid patients; clearance returns to normal when the euthyroid state is achieved. Radiographic Agents Thyroid hormones may reduce the uptake of I, I, and Tc. 123 131 99m Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease. Chloral Hydrate Diazepam Ethionamide Lovastatin Metoclopramide 6-Mercaptopurine Nitroprusside Para-aminosalicylate sodium Perphenazine Resorcinol (excessive topical use) Thiazide Diuretics These agents have been associated with thyroid hormone and / or TSH level alterations by various mechanisms. - Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP dose is increased. Prothrombin time should be closely monitored to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments (see ). Oral anticoagulants Table 2 - The therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides may be reduced by levothyroxine. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides (see ). Digitalis glycosides Table 2 Drug-Food Interactions - Consumption of certain foods may affect levothyroxine absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing. Soybean flour (infant formula), cotton seed meal, walnuts, and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the GI tract. Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions - Changes in TBG concentration must be considered when interpreting T and T values, which necessitates measurement and evaluation of unbound (free) hormone and/or determination of the free-T index (FT I). Pregnancy, infectious hepatitis, estrogens, estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations. Decreases in TBG concentrations are observed in nephrosis, severe hypoproteinemia, severe liver disease, acromegaly, and after androgen or corticosteroid therapy (see also ). Familial hyper- or hypo-thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described, with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000. 4 3 4 4 Table 2 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Impairment of Fertility - Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential, mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of levothyroxine. The synthetic T in Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP is identical to that produced naturally by the human thyroid gland. Although there has been a reported association between prolonged thyroid hormone therapy and breast cancer, this has not been confirmed. Patients receiving Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP for appropriate clinical indications should be titrated to the lowest effective replacement dose. 4 Pregnancy - - Studies in women taking levothyroxine sodium during pregnancy have not shown an increased risk of congenital abnormalities. Therefore, the possibility of fetal harm appears remote. Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP should not be discontinued during pregnancy and hypothyroidism diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated. Category A Hypothyroidism during pregnancy is associated with a higher rate of complications, including spontaneous abortion, pre-eclampsia, stillbirth and premature delivery. Maternal hypothyroidism may have an adverse effect on fetal and childhood growth and development. During pregnancy, serum T levels may decrease and serum TSH levels increase to values outside the normal range. Since elevations in serum TSH may occur as early as 4 weeks gestation, pregnant women taking Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP should have their TSH measured during each trimester. An elevated serum TSH level should be corrected by an increase in the dose of Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP. Since postpartum TSH levels are similar to preconception values, the Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP dosage should return to the pre-pregnancy dose immediately after delivery. A serum TSH level should be obtained 6-8 weeks postpartum. 4 Thyroid hormones cross the placental barrier to some extent as evidenced by levels in cord blood of athyreotic fetuses being approximately one-third maternal levels. Transfer of thyroid hormone from the mother to the fetus, however, may not be adequate to prevent hypothyroidism. in utero Nursing Mothers - Although thyroid hormones are excreted only minimally in human milk, caution should be exercised when Levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP are administered to a nursing woman. However, adequate replacement doses of levothyroxine are generally needed to maintain normal lactation."$$
