"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Monitor patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) for worsening of signs and symptoms of BPH (5.1) Avoid unintentional exposure of women or children to AXIRON. Secondary exposure to testosterone can produce signs of virilization. AXIRON should be discontinued until the cause of the virilization is identified (2.2, 5.2) Exogenous administration of testosterone may lead to azoospermia (5.5) Edema with or without congestive heart failure, may be a complication in patients with preexisting cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease (5.7). Sleep apnea may occur in those with risk factors (5.9) Monitor serum testosterone, prostate specific antigen (PSA), liver function, lipid concentrations, hematocrit and hemoglobin periodically (5.1, 5.3, 5.6, 5.10) AXIRON is flammable until dry (5.13) 5.1 Worsening of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Potential Risk of Prostate Cancer Monitor patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) for worsening of signs and symptoms of BPH. Patients treated with Androgens may be at increased risk for prostate cancer. Evaluate patients for prostate cancer prior to initiating treatment. It would be appropriate to reevaluate patients 3 to 6 months after initiation of treatment, and then in accordance with prostate cancer screening practices. [See Contraindications (4)]. 5.2 Potential for Secondary Exposure to Testosterone Cases of secondary exposure to testosterone in children and women have been reported with topical testosterone products applied to the abdomen or upper arms, including cases of secondary exposure resulting in virilization of children. Signs and symptoms have included enlargement of the penis or clitoris, development of pubic hair, increased erections and libido, aggressive behavior, and advanced bone age. In most cases, these signs and symptoms regressed with removal of the exposure to testosterone. In a few cases, however, enlarged genitalia did not fully return to age-appropriate normal size, and bone age remained modestly greater than chronological age. The risk of transfer was increased in some of these cases by not adhering to precautions for the appropriate use of the topical testosterone product. Children and women should avoid contact with unwashed or unclothed application sites in men using AXIRON [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Inappropriate changes in genital size or development of pubic hair or libido in children, or changes in body hair distribution, significant increase in acne, or other signs of virilization in adult women should be brought to the attention of a physician and the possibility of secondary exposure to testosterone should also be brought to the attention of a physician. Testosterone therapy should be promptly discontinued at least until the cause of virilization has been identified. [See Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. 5.3 Polycythemia Increases in hematocrit, reflective of increases in red blood cell mass, may require lowering or discontinuation of testosterone. Check hematocrit prior to initiating testosterone treatment. It would be appropriate to re-evaluate the hematocrit 3 to 6 months after starting testosterone treatment, and then annually. If hematocrit becomes elevated, stop therapy until hematocrit decreases to an acceptable level. An increase in red blood cell mass may increase the risk of thromboembolic events. 5.4 Use in Women Due to lack of controlled studies in women and potential virilizing effects, AXIRON is not indicated for use in women [see Contraindications (4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. 5.5 Potential for Adverse Effects on Spermatogenesis At large doses of exogenous androgens, including AXIRON, spermatogenesis may be suppressed through feedback inhibition of pituitary follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) which could possibly lead to adverse effects on semen parameters including sperm count. 5.6 Hepatic Adverse Effects Prolonged use of high doses of orally active 17-alpha-alkyl androgens (methyltestosterone) has been associated with serious hepatic adverse effects (peliosis hepatitis, hepatic neoplasms, cholestatic hepatitis, and jaundice). Peliosis hepatitis can be a life-threatening or fatal complication. Long-term therapy with intramuscular testosterone enanthate has produced multiple hepatic adenomas. AXIRON is not known to cause these adverse effects. 5.7 Edema Androgens, including AXIRON, may promote retention of sodium and water. Edema, with or without congestive heart failure, may be a serious complication in patients with pre-existing cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.8 Gynecomastia Gynecomastia may develop and may persist in patients being treated with androgens, including AXIRON, for hypogonadism. 5.9 Sleep Apnea The treatment of hypogonadal men with testosterone may potentiate sleep apnea in some patients, especially those with risk factors such as obesity and chronic lung disease. 5.10 Lipids Changes in serum lipid profile may require dose adjustment or discontinuation of testosterone therapy. 5.11 Hypercalcemia Androgens, including AXIRON, should be used with caution in cancer patients at risk of hypercalcemia (and associated hypercalciuria). Regular monitoring of serum calcium concentrations is recommended in these patients. 5.12 Decreased Thyroxine-binding Globulin Androgens, including AXIRON, may decrease concentrations of thyroxin-binding globulins, resulting in decreased total T4 serum concentration and increased resin uptake of T3 and T4. Free thyroid hormone concentration remain unchanged, however there is no clinical evidence of thyroid dysfunction. 5.13 Flammability Alcohol based products, including AXIRON, are flammable; therefore, patients should be advised to avoid smoking, fire or flame until the AXIRON dose applied has dried."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Monitor patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) for worsening of signs and symptoms of BPH (5.1) Avoid unintentional exposure of women or children to AXIRON. Secondary exposure to testosterone can produce signs of virilization. AXIRON should be discontinued until the cause of the virilization is identified (2.2, 5.2) Venous thromboembolism (VTE), including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) have been reported in patients using testosterone products. Evaluate patients with signs or symptoms consistent with DVT or PE. (5.4) Some postmarketing studies have shown an increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke associated with use of testosterone replacement therapy. (5.5) Exogenous administration of testosterone may lead to azoospermia (5.7) Edema with or without congestive heart failure, may be a complication in patients with preexisting cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease (5.9). Sleep apnea may occur in those with risk factors (5.11) Monitor serum testosterone, prostate specific antigen (PSA), liver function, lipid concentrations, hematocrit and hemoglobin periodically (5.1, 5.3, 5.8, 5.12) AXIRON is flammable until dry (5.15) 5.1 Worsening of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Potential Risk of Prostate Cancer Monitor patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) for worsening of signs and symptoms of BPH. Patients treated with Androgens may be at increased risk for prostate cancer. Evaluate patients for prostate cancer prior to initiating treatment. It would be appropriate to reevaluate patients 3 to 6 months after initiation of treatment, and then in accordance with prostate cancer screening practices. [See Contraindications (4)]. 5.2 Potential for Secondary Exposure to Testosterone Cases of secondary exposure to testosterone in children and women have been reported with topical testosterone products applied to the abdomen or upper arms, including cases of secondary exposure resulting in virilization of children. Signs and symptoms have included enlargement of the penis or clitoris, development of pubic hair, increased erections and libido, aggressive behavior, and advanced bone age. In most cases, these signs and symptoms regressed with removal of the exposure to testosterone. In a few cases, however, enlarged genitalia did not fully return to age-appropriate normal size, and bone age remained modestly greater than chronological age. The risk of transfer was increased in some of these cases by not adhering to precautions for the appropriate use of the topical testosterone product. Children and women should avoid contact with unwashed or unclothed application sites in men using AXIRON [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Inappropriate changes in genital size or development of pubic hair or libido in children, or changes in body hair distribution, significant increase in acne, or other signs of virilization in adult women should be brought to the attention of a physician and the possibility of secondary exposure to testosterone should also be brought to the attention of a physician. Testosterone therapy should be promptly discontinued at least until the cause of virilization has been identified. [See Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. 5.3 Polycythemia Increases in hematocrit, reflective of increases in red blood cell mass, may require lowering or discontinuation of testosterone. Check hematocrit prior to initiating testosterone treatment. It would be appropriate to re-evaluate the hematocrit 3 to 6 months after starting testosterone treatment, and then annually. If hematocrit becomes elevated, stop therapy until hematocrit decreases to an acceptable level. An increase in red blood cell mass may increase the risk of thromboembolic events. 5.4 Venous Thromboembolism There have been postmarketing reports of venous thromboembolic events, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), in patients using testosterone products, such as AXIRON. Evaluate patients who report symptoms of pain, edema, warmth and erythema in the lower extremity for DVT and those who present with acute shortness of breath for PE. If a venous thromboembolic event is suspected, discontinue treatment with AXIRON and initiate appropriate workup and management [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.5 Cardiovascular Risk Long term clinical safety trials have not been conducted to assess the cardiovascular outcomes of testosterone replacement therapy in men. To date, epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials have been inconclusive for determining the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), such as non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, and cardiovascular death, with the use of testosterone compared to non-use. Some studies, but not all, have reported an increased risk of MACE in association with use of testosterone replacement therapy in men. Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use AXIRON. 5.6 Use in Women Due to lack of controlled studies in women and potential virilizing effects, AXIRON is not indicated for use in women [see Contraindications (4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. 5.7 Potential for Adverse Effects on Spermatogenesis At large doses of exogenous androgens, including AXIRON, spermatogenesis may be suppressed through feedback inhibition of pituitary follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) which could possibly lead to adverse effects on semen parameters including sperm count. 5.8 Hepatic Adverse Effects Prolonged use of high doses of orally active 17-alpha-alkyl androgens (methyltestosterone) has been associated with serious hepatic adverse effects (peliosis hepatitis, hepatic neoplasms, cholestatic hepatitis, and jaundice). Peliosis hepatitis can be a life-threatening or fatal complication. Long-term therapy with intramuscular testosterone enanthate has produced multiple hepatic adenomas. AXIRON is not known to cause these adverse effects. 5.9 Edema Androgens, including AXIRON, may promote retention of sodium and water. Edema, with or without congestive heart failure, may be a serious complication in patients with pre-existing cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.10 Gynecomastia Gynecomastia may develop and may persist in patients being treated with androgens, including AXIRON, for hypogonadism. 5.11 Sleep Apnea The treatment of hypogonadal men with testosterone may potentiate sleep apnea in some patients, especially those with risk factors such as obesity and chronic lung disease. 5.12 Lipids Changes in serum lipid profile may require dose adjustment or discontinuation of testosterone therapy. 5.13 Hypercalcemia Androgens, including AXIRON, should be used with caution in cancer patients at risk of hypercalcemia (and associated hypercalciuria). Regular monitoring of serum calcium concentrations is recommended in these patients. 5.14 Decreased Thyroxine-binding Globulin Androgens, including AXIRON, may decrease concentrations of thyroxin-binding globulins, resulting in decreased total T4 serum concentration and increased resin uptake of T3 and T4. Free thyroid hormone concentration remain unchanged, however there is no clinical evidence of thyroid dysfunction. 5.15 Flammability Alcohol based products, including AXIRON, are flammable; therefore, patients should be advised to avoid smoking, fire or flame until the AXIRON dose applied has dried."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >4%) are skin application site reactions, increased hematocrit, headache, diarrhea, vomiting, and increased serum PSA (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1-800-LillyRx (1-800-545-5979) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Hypogonadal Men Table 2 shows the treatment emergent adverse reactions that were reported by either >4% of 155 patients in a 120 day, Phase 3 study or by >4% of 71 patients who continued to use AXIRON for up to 180 days. These data reflect the experience primarily with a testosterone dose of 60 mg, which was taken by all patients at the start of the study, and was the maintenance dose for 97 patients. However, the doses used varied from 30 mg to 120 mg. Table 2: Adverse Reactions Seen With the Use of AXIRON in either the 120 Day Clinical Trial or in the Extension to 180 Days (>4%) Event 120 Days (155 Patients) 180 Days (71 Patients) Application Site Irritation 11 (7%) 6 (8%) Application Site Erythema 8 (5%) 5 (7%) Headache 8 (5%) 4 (6%) Hematocrit Increased 6 (4%) 5 (7%) Diarrhea 4 (3%) 3 (4%) Vomiting 4 (3%) 3 (4%) PSA Increased 2 (1%) 3 (4%) Other less common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 patients in the 120 day trial included: application site edema, application site warmth, increased hemoglobin, hypertension, erythema (general), increased blood glucose, acne, nasopharyngitis, anger and anxiety. Other less common adverse reactions reported in fewer than 1% of patients in the 120 day trial included: asthenia, affect lability, folliculitis, increased lacrimation, breast tenderness, increased blood pressure, increased blood testosterone, neoplasm prostate and elevated red blood cell count. During the 120 day trial one patient discontinued treatment because of affect lability/anger which was considered possibly related to AXIRON administration. During the 120 day clinical trial there was an increase in mean PSA values of 0.13 \\302\\261 0.68 ng/mL from baseline. At the end of the 180 day extension clinical trial, there was an overall increase in mean PSA values of 0.1 \\302\\261 0.54 ng/mL. Following the 120 day study, seventy-one (71) patients entered a two-month extension study with AXIRON. Two patients (3%) had adverse reactions that led to discontinuation of treatment during the period from Day 120 to Day 180. These reactions were: one patient with application site irritation (considered possibly related to AXIRON application) and one patient with dry skin and erythema, but not at the application site (considered not related to AXIRON administration) and application site erythema (considered possibly related to AXIRON administration). No serious adverse reactions to AXIRON were reported during either the 120 day trial, or the extension to 180 days."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence >4%) are skin application site reactions, increased hematocrit, headache, diarrhea, vomiting, and increased serum PSA (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Eli Lilly and Company at 1-800-LillyRx (1-800-545-5979) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Hypogonadal Men Table 2 shows the treatment emergent adverse reactions that were reported by either >4% of 155 patients in a 120 day, Phase 3 study or by >4% of 71 patients who continued to use AXIRON for up to 180 days. These data reflect the experience primarily with a testosterone dose of 60 mg, which was taken by all patients at the start of the study, and was the maintenance dose for 97 patients. However, the doses used varied from 30 mg to 120 mg. Table 2: Adverse Reactions Seen With the Use of AXIRON in either the 120 Day Clinical Trial or in the Extension to 180 Days (>4%) Event 120 Days (155 Patients) 180 Days (71 Patients) Application Site Irritation 11 (7%) 6 (8%) Application Site Erythema 8 (5%) 5 (7%) Headache 8 (5%) 4 (6%) Hematocrit Increased 6 (4%) 5 (7%) Diarrhea 4 (3%) 3 (4%) Vomiting 4 (3%) 3 (4%) PSA Increased 2 (1%) 3 (4%) Other less common adverse reactions reported by at least 2 patients in the 120 day trial included: application site edema, application site warmth, increased hemoglobin, hypertension, erythema (general), increased blood glucose, acne, nasopharyngitis, anger and anxiety. Other less common adverse reactions reported in fewer than 1% of patients in the 120 day trial included: asthenia, affect lability, folliculitis, increased lacrimation, breast tenderness, increased blood pressure, increased blood testosterone, neoplasm prostate and elevated red blood cell count. During the 120 day trial one patient discontinued treatment because of affect lability/anger which was considered possibly related to AXIRON administration. During the 120 day clinical trial there was an increase in mean PSA values of 0.13 \\302\\261 0.68 ng/mL from baseline. At the end of the 180 day extension clinical trial, there was an overall increase in mean PSA values of 0.1 \\302\\261 0.54 ng/mL. Following the 120 day study, seventy-one (71) patients entered a two-month extension study with AXIRON. Two patients (3%) had adverse reactions that led to discontinuation of treatment during the period from Day 120 to Day 180. These reactions were: one patient with application site irritation (considered possibly related to AXIRON application) and one patient with dry skin and erythema, but not at the application site (considered not related to AXIRON administration) and application site erythema (considered possibly related to AXIRON administration). No serious adverse reactions to AXIRON were reported during either the 120 day trial, or the extension to 180 days. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of AXIRON. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiovascular Disorders: myocardial infarction, stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Vascular Disorders: Venous thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Androgens may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirement in diabetic patients (7.1). Changes in anticoagulant activity may be seen with androgens. More frequent monitoring of International Normalized Ratio (INR) and prothrombin time is recommended (7.2). Use of testosterone with Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) or corticosteroids may result in increased fluid retention. Use with caution, particularly in patients with cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease (7.3). 7.1 Insulin Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, insulin requirement. 7.2 Oral anticoagulants Changes in anticoagulant activity may be seen with androgens. More frequent monitoring of INR and prothrombin time is recommended in patients taking anticoagulants, especially at the initiation and termination of androgen therapy. 7.3 Corticosteroids The concurrent use of testosterone with ACTH or corticosteroids may result in increased fluid retention and should be monitored cautiously, particularly in patients with cardiac, renal or hepatic disease."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions in the male have occurred with some androgens: Endocrine and urogenital: Gynecomastia and excessive frequency and duration of penile erections. Oligospermia may occur at high dosages. Skin and appendages: Hirsutism, male pattern of baldness, seborrhea, and acne. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Retention of sodium, chloride, water, potassium, calcium, and inorganic phosphates. Gastrointestinal: Nausea, cholestatic jaundice, alterations in liver function tests, rarely hepatocellular neoplasms and peliosis hepatis (see WARNINGS). Hematologic: Suppression of clotting factors II, V, VII, and X, bleeding in patients on concomitant anticoagulant therapy, and polycythemia. Nervous system: Increased or decreased libido, headache, anxiety, depression, and generalized paresthesia. Allergic: Hypersensitivity, including skin manifestations and anaphylactoid reactions. Vascular Disorders - venous thromboembolism Miscellaneous: Inflammation and pain at the site of intramuscular injection. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"Drug interactions: Androgens may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may require reduction in order to maintain satisfactory therapeutic hypoprothrombinemia. Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, insulin requirements."$$
