
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with theophylline are generally mild when serum theophylline concentrations are less than 20 mcg/mL and mainly consist of transient caffeine-like adverse effects such as nausea, vomiting, headache, and insomnia. When serum theophylline concentrations exceed 20 mcg/mL, however, theophylline produces a wide range of adverse reactions including persistent vomiting, cardiac arrhythmias, and intractable seizures which can be lethal (see OVERDOSAGE ). Other adverse reactions that have been reported at serum theophylline concentrations less than 20 mcg/mL include diarrhea, irritability, restlessness, fine skeletal muscle tremors, and transient diuresis. In patients with hypoxia secondary to COPD, multifocal atrial tachycardia and flutter have been reported at serum theophylline concentrations greater than or equal to 15 mcg/mL. There have been a few isolated reports of seizures at serum theophylline concentrations less than 20 mcg/mL in patients with an underlying neurological disease or in elderly patients. The occurrence of seizures in elderly patients with serum theophylline concentrations less than 20 mcg/mL may be secondary to decreased protein binding resulting in a larger proportion of the total serum theophylline concentration in the pharmacologically active unbound form. The clinical characteristics of the seizures reported in patients with serum theophylline concentrations less than 20 mcg/mL have generally been milder than seizures associated with excessive serum theophylline concentrations resulting from an overdose (i.e., they have generally been transient, often stopped without anticonvulsant therapy, and did not result in neurological residua). There have been reports of non-convulsive status epilepticus in patients receiving theophylline, and this possibility should be considered in patients with abnormal central nervous system function and a history of theophylline administration. Hypercalcemia has been reported in a patient with hyperthyroid disease at therapeutic theophylline concentrations (see OVERDOSAGE ). Table IV. Manifestations of theophylline toxicity.These data are derived from two studies in patients with serum theophylline concentrations greater than 30 mcg/mL. In the first study (Study #1 - Shanon, Ann lntern Med 1993;119:1161-67), data were prospectively collected from 249 consecutive cases of theophylline toxicity referred to a regional poison center for consultation. In the second study (Study #2 - Sessler, Am J Med 1990;88:567-76), data were retrospectively collected from 116 cases with serum theophylline concentrations greater than 30 mcg/mL among 6000 blood samples obtained for measurement of serum theophylline concentrations in three emergency departments. Differences in the incidence of manifestations of theophylline toxicity between the two studies may reflect sample selection as a result of study design (e.g., in Study #1, 48% of the patients had acute intoxications versus only 10% in Study #2) and different methods of reporting results. Percentage of patients reported with sign or symptom Acute Overdose (Large Single Ingestion) Chronic Overdosage (Multiple Excessive Doses) Sign/Symptom Study 1 (n=157) Study 2 (n=14) Study 1 (n=92) Study 2 (n=102) Asymptomatic NRNR = Not reported in a comparable manner. 0 NR 6 Gastrointestinal Vomiting 73 93 30 61 Abdominal Pain NR 21 NR 12 Diarrhea NR 0 NR 14 Hematemesis NR 0 NR 2 Metabolic/Other Hypokalemia 85 79 44 43 Hyperglycemia 98 NR 18 NR Acid/base disturbance 34 21 9 5 Rhabdomyolysis NR 7 NR 0 Cardiovascular Sinus tachycardia 100 86 100 62 Other supraventricular tachycardias 2 21 12 14 Ventricular premature beats 3 21 10 19 Atrial fibrillation or flutter 1 NR 12 NR Multifocal atrial tachycardia 0 NR 2 NR Ventricular arrhythmias with hemodynamic instability 7 14 40 0 Hypotension/shock NR 21 NR 8 Neurologic Nervousness NR 64 NR 21 Tremors 38 29 16 14 Disorientation NR 7 NR 11 Seizures 5 14 14 5 Death 3 21 10 4 Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response, infection at the site of injection, venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection, extravasation and hypervolemia."$$
"Drug Interactions Theophylline interacts with a wide variety of drugs. The interaction may be pharmacodynamic, i.e., alterations in the therapeutic response to theophylline or another drug or occurrence of adverse effects without a change in serum theophylline concentration. More frequently, however, the interaction is pharmacokinetic, i.e., the rate of theophylline clearance is altered by another drug resulting in increased or decreased serum theophylline concentrations. Theophylline only rarely alters the pharmacokinetics of other drugs. The drugs listed in Table II have the potential to produce clinically significant pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic interactions with theophylline. The information in the \\\\"Effect\\\\" column of Table II assumes that the interacting drug is being added to a steady-state theophylline regimen. If theophylline is being initiated in a patient who is already taking a drug that inhibits theophylline clearance (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin), the dose of theophylline required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration will be smaller. Conversely, if theophylline is being initiated in a patient who is already taking a drug that enhances theophylline clearance (e.g., rifampin), the dose of theophylline required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration will be larger. Discontinuation of a concomitant drug that increases theophylline clearance will result in accumulation of theophylline to potentially toxic levels, unless the theophylline dose is appropriately reduced. Discontinuation of a concomitant drug that inhibits theophylline clearance will result in decreased serum theophylline concentrations, unless the theophylline dose is appropriately increased. The drugs listed in Table III have either been documented not to interact with theophylline or do not produce a clinically significant interaction (i.e., less than 15% change in theophylline clearance). The listing of drugs in Tables II and III are current as of September 1, 1995. New interactions are continuously being reported for theophylline, especially with new chemical entities. The clinician should not assume that a drug does not interact with theophylline if it is not listed in Table II. Before addition of a newly available drug in a patient receiving theophylline, the package insert of the new drug and/or the medical literature should be consulted to determine if an interaction between the new drug and theophylline has been reported. Table II. Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline.Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for further information regarding table. Drug Type of Interaction EffectAverage effect on steady state theophylline concentration or other clinical effect for pharmacologic interactions. Individual patients may experience larger changes in serum theophylline concentration than the value listed. Adenosine Theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. Higher doses of adenosine may be required to achieve desired effect. Alcohol A single large dose of alcohol (3 mL/kg of whiskey) decreases theophylline clearance for up to 24 hours. 30% increase Allopurinol Decreases theophylline clearance at allopurinol doses greater than or equal to 600 mg/day. 25% increase Aminoglutethimide Increases theophylline clearance by induction of microsomal enzyme activity. 25% decrease Carbamazepine Similar to aminoglutethimide. 30% decrease Cimetidine Decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting cytochrome P450 1A2. 70% increase Ciprofloxacin Similar to cimetidine. 40% increase Clarithromycin Similar to erythromycin. 25% increase Diazepam Benzodiazepines increase CNS concentrations of adenosine, a potent CNS depressant, while theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. Larger diazepam doses may be required to produce desired level of sedation. Discontinuation of theophylline without reduction of diazepam dose may result in respiratory depression. Disulfiram Decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting hydroxylation and demethylation. 50% increase Enoxacin Similar to cimetidine. 300% increase Ephedrine Synergistic CNS effects. Increased frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Erythromycin Erythromycin metabolite decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting cytochrome P450 3A3. 35% increase. Erythromycin steady-state serum concentrations decrease by a similar amount. Estrogen Estrogen containing oral contraceptives decrease theophylline clearance in a dose-dependent fashion. The effect of progesterone on theophylline clearance is unknown. 30% increase Flurazepam Similar to diazepam. Similar to diazepam. Fluvoxamine Similar to cimetidine. Similar to cimetidine. Halothane Halothane sensitizes the myocardium to catecholamines, theophylline increases release of endogenous catecholamines. Increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Interferon, human recombinant alpha-A Decreases theophylline clearance. 100% increase Isoproterenol (IV) Increases theophylline clearance. 20% decrease Ketamine Pharmacologic May lower theophylline seizure threshold. Lithium Theophylline increases renal lithium clearance. Lithium dose required to achieve a therapeutic serum concentration increased an average of 60%. Lorazepam Similar to diazepam. Similar to diazepam. Methotrexate (MTX) Decreases theophylline clearance. 20% increase after low dose MTX, higher dose MTX may have a greater effect. Mexiletine Similar to disulfiram. 80% increase Midazolam Similar to diazepam. Similar to diazepam. Moricizine Increases theophylline clearance. 25% decrease Pancuronium Theophylline may antagonize non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking effects; possibly due to phosphodiesterase inhibition. Larger dose of pancuronium may be required to achieve neuromuscular blockade. Pentoxifylline Decreases theophylline clearance. 30% increase Phenobarbital (PB) Similar to aminoglutethimide. 25% decrease after two weeks of concurrent PB. Phenytoin Phenytoin increases theophylline clearance by increasing microsomal enzyme activity. Theophylline decreases phenytoin absorption. Serum theophylline and phenytoin concentrations decrease about 40%. Propafenone Decreases theophylline clearance and pharmacologic interaction. 40% increase. Beta-2 blocking effect may decrease efficacy of theophylline. Propranolol Similar to cimetidine and pharmacologic interaction. 100% increase. Beta-2 blocking effect may decrease efficacy of theophylline. Rifampin Increases theophylline clearance by increasing cytochrome P450 1A2 and 3A3 activity. 20-40% decrease Sulfinpyrazone Increases theophylline clearance by increasing demethylation and hydroxylation. Decreases renal clearance of theophylline. 20% decrease Tacrine Similar to cimetidine, also increases renal clearance theophylline. 90% increase Thiabendazole Decreases theophylline clearance. 190% increase Ticlopidine Decreases theophylline clearance. 60% increase Troleandomycin Similar to erythromycin. 33-100% increase depending on troleandomycin dose. Verapamil Similar to disulfiram. 20% increase Table III. Drugs that have been documented not to interact with theophylline or drugs that produce no clinically significant interaction with theophylline.Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for information regarding table. albuterol, systemic and inhaled medroxyprogesterone amoxicillin methylprednisolone ampicillin, with or without sulbactam metronidazole atenolol metoprolol azithromycin nadolol caffeine, dietary ingestion nifedipine cefaclor nizatidine co-trimoxazole norfloxacin (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) ofloxacin diltiazem omeprazole dirithromycin prednisone, prednisolone enflurane ranitidine famotidine rifabutin felodipine roxithromycin finasteride sorbitol hydrocortisone (purgative doses do not inhibit isoflurane theophylline absorption) isoniazid sucralfate isradipine terbutaline, systemic influenza vaccine terfenadine ketoconazole tetracycline lomefloxacin tocainide mebendazole"$$
