"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Bronchospasm: Can occur with inhalation of tobramycin inhalation solution. Treat as medically appropriate, if it occurs (5.1). Ototoxicity: Tinnitus and hearing loss have been reported in patients receiving tobramycin inhalation solution. . If noted, manage as medically appropriate, including potentially discontinuing tobramycin inhalation solution (5.2). Nephrotoxicity: Has been associated with aminoglycosides as a class. If nephrotoxicity develops, manage the patient as medically appropriate, including potentially discontinuing tobramycin inhalation solution(5.3). Neuromuscular Disorders: Aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function. If neuromuscular blockade occurs, it may be reversed by the administration of calcium salts but mechanical assistance may be necessary. (5.4) 5.1 Bronchospasm Bronchospasm can occur with inhalation of tobramycin inhalation solution. In clinical studies with tobramycin inhalation solution, changes in FEV1 measured after the inhaled dose were similar in tobramycin inhalation solution and placebo groups. Bronchospasm that occurs during the use of tobramycin inhalation solution should be treated as medically appropriate. 5.2 Ototoxicity Transient tinnitus occurred in eight tobramycin inhalation solution treated patients versus no placebo patients in the clinical studies. Tinnitus may be a sentinel symptom of ototoxicity, and therefore the onset of this symptom warrants further clinical investigation. In postmarketing experience, patients receiving tobramycin inhalation solution have reported hearing loss. Ototoxicity, manifested as both auditory and vestibular toxicity, has been reported with parenteral aminoglycosides. Vestibular toxicity may be manifested by vertigo, ataxia or dizziness. Patients with known or suspected auditory or vestibular dysfunction should be closely monitored when taking tobramycin inhalation solution. Monitoring might include obtaining audiometric evaluations and serum tobramycin levels. If ototoxicity is noted, the patient should be managed as medically appropriate, including potentially discontinuing tobramycin inhalation solution [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.3 Nephrotoxicity Nephrotoxicity was not seen during clinical studies with tobramycin inhalation solution but has been associated with aminoglycosides as a class. Patients with known or suspected renal dysfunction or taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs along with tobramycin inhalation solution should have serum concentrations of tobramycin and laboratory measurements of renal function obtained at the discretion of the treating physician. If nephrotoxicity develops, the patient should be managed as medically appropriate, including potentially discontinuing tobramycin inhalation solution. 5.4 Neuromuscular Disorders Aminoglycosides, including tobramycin, may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function. Neuromuscular blockade, respiratory failure, and prolonged respiratory paralysis may occur more commonly in patients with underlying neuromuscular disorders, such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson's disease. Prolonged respiratory paralysis may also occur in patients receiving neuromuscular blocking agents. If neuromuscular blockade occurs, it may be reversed by the administration of calcium salts but mechanical assistance may be necessary. 5.5 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Aminoglycosides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Aminoglycosides cross the placenta, and streptomycin has been associated with several reports of total, irreversible, bilateral congenital deafness in pediatric patients exposed in utero. The risk with inhaled tobramycin is less well characterized. Patients who use tobramycin inhalation solution during pregnancy, or become pregnant while taking tobramycin inhalation solution should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. 5.6 Concomitant Use of Systemic Aminoglycosides Patients receiving concomitant tobramycin inhalation solution and parenteral aminoglycoside therapy should be monitored as clinically appropriate for toxicities associated with aminoglycosides as a class. Serum tobramycin levels should be monitored."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Caution should be exercised when prescribing BETHKIS to patients with known or suspected auditory, vestibular, renal, or neuromuscular dysfunction. (5.1, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.5) Aminoglycoside may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function. (5.3) Bronchospasm can occur with inhalation of BETHKIS. (5.4) Audiograms, serum concentration, and renal function should be monitored as appropriate. (5.2 and 5.5) Fetal harm can occur when aminoglycosides are administered to a pregnant woman. Apprise women of the potential hazard to the fetus. (5.5) 5.1 Ototoxicity Caution should be exercised when prescribing BETHKIS to patients with known or suspected auditory or vestibular dysfunction. Findings related to ototoxicity as measured by audiometric evaluations and auditory adverse event reports were similar between BETHKIS and placebo in controlled clinical trials. Hearing loss was reported in two (1.1%) BETHKIS-treated patients and in one (0.9%) placebo-treated patient during clinical studies. Additionally, dizziness and vertigo, both of which may be manifestations of vestibular forms of ototoxicity, were observed in similar numbers of BETHKIS- and placebo-treated patients. Dizziness occurred in two (1.1%) BETHKIS-treated patients and one (0.9%) placebo-treated patient and vertigo occurred in two (1.1%) BETHKIS-treated patients versus no placebo patients in clinical studies. None of the BETHKIS patients discontinued their therapy due to hearing loss, dizziness or vertigo. Tinnitus may be a sentinel symptom of ototoxicity. No reports of tinnitus occurred in patients during clinical studies with BETHKIS, but because it has been observed with inhaled tobramycin solutions, onset of this symptom warrants caution. Ototoxicity, manifested as both auditory and vestibular toxicity, has been reported with parenteral aminoglycosides. Vestibular toxicity may be manifested by vertigo, ataxia or dizziness. 5.2 Nephrotoxicity Caution should be exercised when prescribing BETHKIS to patients with known or suspected renal dysfunction. Nephrotoxicity was not seen during BETHKIS clinical studies but has been associated with aminoglycosides as a class. If nephrotoxicity occurs in a patient receiving BETHKIS, therapy should be discontinued until serum concentrations fall below 2 mcg/mL. Twenty-six (14%) BETHKIS patients and 15 (13%) placebo patients had increases in serum creatinine of at least 50% over baseline. Follow-up values were obtained for 17 of the 26 BETHKIS patients, all of which decreased to serum creatinine values that were within normal laboratory ranges. Patients who experience an increase in serum creatinine during treatment with BETHKIS should have their renal function closely monitored. 5.3 Neuromuscular Disorders BETHKIS should be used cautiously in patients with muscular disorders, such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson's disease, since aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function. 5.4 Bronchospasm Bronchospasm can occur with inhalation of tobramycin. In clinical studies with BETHKIS, bronchospasm was observed in one (0.5%) BETHKIS-treated patient and in no placebo-treated patients. Wheezing occurred in ten (5%) BETHKIS-treated patients and four (4%) placebo-treated patients. Bronchospasm and wheezing should be treated as medically appropriate. 5.5 Laboratory Tests 5.5.1 Audiograms Clinical studies of inhaled tobramycin solutions did not identify hearing loss using audiometric tests which evaluated hearing up to 8000 Hz. Physicians should consider an audiogram for patients who show any evidence of auditory dysfunction, or who are at increased risk for auditory dysfunction.Tinnitus may be a sentinel symptom of ototoxicity, and therefore the onset of this symptom warrants caution. 5.5.2 Serum Concentrations In patients with normal renal function treated with BETHKIS, serum tobramycin concentrations range from approximately 0.06-1.89 mcg/mL one hour after dose administration and do not require routine monitoring. Serum concentrations of tobramycin in patients with renal dysfunction or patients treated with concomitant parenteral tobramycin should be monitored at the discretion of the treating physician. (See 12.3 ) 5.5.3 Renal Function The clinical studies of BETHKIS did not reveal any imbalance in the percentage of patients who experienced at least a 50% rise in serum creatinine from baseline in either the BETHKIS group (n=26, 14%) or the placebo group (n=15, 13%). Laboratory tests of urine and renal function should be conducted at the discretion of the treating physician. 5.6 Use in Pregnancy Aminoglycosides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Aminoglycosides cross the placenta, and streptomycin has been associated with several reports of total irreversible, bilateral congenital deafness in pediatric patients exposed in utero. Patients who use BETHKIS during pregnancy, or become pregnant while taking BETHKIS should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions (more than 5%) occurring more frequently in BETHKIS patients are forced expiratory volume decreased, rales, red blood cell sedimentation rate increased, and dysphonia. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Chiesi USA, Inc. at 1-888- 661-9260 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of drugs cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to BETHKIS in two placebo-controlled studies in 305 cystic fibrosis patients. Patients receiving BETHKIS ranged in age from 6 to 31 years. In Study 1, an eight week study, 29 patients received BETHKIS versus 30 patients who received placebo for a total of four weeks on drug and four weeks off drug. All patients were <= 30 years of age (mean age 12.6 years) and 46% were females. 52.5% of patients were 6 to 12 years of age while 30.5% of patients were 13-17 years old. Only 16.5% of patients were adults (> 17 years old). Eighty percent (80%) of patients were chronically colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa while 20.3% of patients were initially or intermittently colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa during the study. More patients in the placebo group discontinued/dropped out of Study 1 than in the BETHKIS group (23% [7/30] vs 3.4% [1/29], respectively). Five patients in the placebo group compared to none in the BETHKIS group discontinued/dropped out because of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) such as pulmonary exacerbations and respiratory disorders. In Study 2, a 24 week study, 161 patients received BETHKIS versus 85 patients who received placebo in alternating four week on-off cycles for three cycles. All patients were <= 46 years of age (mean age 14.8 years) and 45% were females. 41% of patients were 6-12 years old while 29% of patients were 13-17 years old. Only 30% were adults (>17 years). Eighty-seven percent (87%) of patients were chronically colonized with P. aeruginosa. Only 13% were either initially or intermittently colonized with P. aeruginosa during the study. More patients in the placebo group discontinued/dropped out of Study 2 than in the BETHKIS group (9.4% [8/85] vs 4.3% [7/161], respectively). Of these, 3 patients in the BETHKIS group (1.9%) compared to 2 patients in the placebo group (2.4%) withdrew due to a TEAE. The most common TEAEs causing patients to discontinue from the study drug are respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders. The most common adverse experiences reported were respiratory disorders, consistent with the underlying disease in the patient population being evaluated and these were similarly distributed between both BETHKIS- and placebo-treated patients. The following adverse reactions were reported in at least 5% of Bethkis-treated patients and at rates >= 2% more common compared to the placebo-treated patients: decreased forced expiratory volume, rales, red blood cell sedimentation rate increased, and dysphonia (Table 1). Table 1: Patients with Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Occurring in >= 2% of BETHKIS Patients Adverse Reactions BETHKIS N=190 (%) Placebo N=115 (%) Forced expiratory volume decreased 59 (31%) 33 (29%) Rales 36 (19%) 18 (16%) Red blood cell sedimentation rate increased 16 (8%) 6 (5%) Dysphonia 11 (6%) 2 (2%) Wheezing 10 (5%) 4 (4%) Epistaxis 6 (3%) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 5 (3%) 2 (2%) Bronchitis 5 (3%) 1 (1%) Tonsillitis 4 (2%) 0 Diarrhea 3 (2%) 1 (1%) Eosinophilia 3 (2%) 0 Immunoglobulins increased 3 (2%) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In postmarketing experience, some patients receiving inhaled tobramycin have reported hearing loss. Some of these reports occurred in patients with previous or concomitant treatment with systemic aminoglycosides. Patients with hearing loss frequently reported tinnitus (see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Ototoxicity (5.1)). Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"6. ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling: Bronchospasm [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Ototoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Nephrotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The most common adverse reactions (> 5%) in patients treated with tobramycin inhalation solution were cough, pharyngitis, and increased sputum (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact PARI at 1-844 KITABIS (1-844-548-2247) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Tobramycin inhalation solution was studied in two clinical studies in 258 cystic fibrosis patients ranging in age from 6 to 48 years. Patients received tobramycin inhalation solution in alternating periods of 28 days on and 28 days off drug in addition to their standard cystic fibrosis therapy for a total of 24 weeks. Adverse reactions reported in these studies are described below: The most frequent adverse reactions in the tobramycin inhalation arm were cough, pharyngitis, and increased sputum (see Table 1). Thirty-three patients (13%) treated with tobramycin inhalation solution complained of voice alteration compared to 17 (7%) placebo patients. Voice alteration was more common in the on-drug periods. Eight patients from the tobramycin inhalation solution group (3%) reported tinnitus compared to no placebo patients. All episodes were transient, resolved without discontinuation of the tobramycin inhalation solution treatment regimen, and were not associated with loss of hearing in audiograms. Table 1 lists the percent of patients with selected adverse reactions that occurred in >5% of tobramycin inhalation solution patients during the two Phase III studies. Table 1: Percent of Patients With Selected Adverse Reactions Occurring in >5% of Tobramycin Inhalation Solution Patients 1 Includes reported decreases in pulmonary function tests or decreased lung volume on chest radiograph associated with intercurrent illness or study drug administration. Adverse Reaction Tobramycin Inhalation Solution (n=258) % Placebo (n=262) % Cough Increased 46.1 47.3 Pharyngitis 38.0 39.3 Sputum Increased 37.6 39.7 Dyspnea 33.7 38.5 Hemoptysis 19.4 23.7 Lung Function Decreased1 16.3 15.3 Voice Alteration 12.8 6.5 Taste Perversion 6.6 6.9 Rash 5.4 6.1 Following are selected adverse reactions that occurred in less than or equal to 5% of patients treated with tobramycin inhalation solution: Ear and labyrinth disorders Tinnitus Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia Infections and infestations Laryngitis 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of tobramycin inhalation solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ear and labyrinth disorders Hearing loss: Some of these reports occurred in patients with previous or concomitant treatment with systemic aminoglycosides. Patients with hearing loss frequently reported tinnitus. [see WARNINGS and Precautions (5.2)] Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Hypersensitivity, pruritus, urticaria, rash Nervous system disorders Aphonia, dysgeusia Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Bronchospasm [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], oropharyngeal pain"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent and/or sequential use of BETHKIS with other drugs with neurotoxic or ototoxic potential should be avoided. (7.1) BETHKIS should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or mannitol. (7.2) 7.1 Drugs with Neurotoxic or Ototoxic Potential Concurrent and/or sequential use of BETHKIS with other drugs with neurotoxic or ototoxic potential should be avoided. 7.2 Ethacrynic Acid, Furosemide, Urea, or Mannitol Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering antibiotic concentrations in serum and tissue. Therefore, BETHKIS should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or mannitol."$$
"7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent and/or sequential use with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic or ototoxic potential should be avoided (7.1). Concomitant administration with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol is not recommended due to possible enhancement of aminoglycoside toxicity (7.2). 7.1 Drugs with Neurotoxic, Nephrotoxic or Ototoxic Potential Concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin inhalation solution with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided if possible. 7.2 Diuretics Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering aminoglycoside concentrations in serum and tissue. Tobramycin inhalation solution should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection: The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin (TOBREX(R)) are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin (TOBREX(R) tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin (TOBREX(R) tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection. The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin [TOBREX(R) (tobramycin ophthalmic solution)] are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection. The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long-term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid/anti-infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component, the anti-infective component, or the combination. Exact incidence figures are not available. The most frequent adverse reactions to topical ocular tobramycin [TOBREX(R)* (tobramycin ophthalmic solution)] are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than 4% of patients. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. The reactions due to the steroid component are: elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) with possible development of glaucoma, and infrequent optic nerve damage; posterior subcapsular cataract formation; and delayed wound healing. Secondary Infection The development of secondary infection has occurred after use of combinations containing steroids and antimicrobials. Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long term applications of steroids. The possibility of fungal invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where steroid treatment has been used. Secondary bacterial ocular infection following suppression of host responses also occurs."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity: Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity: Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Neurotoxicity Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium, and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Neurotoxicity Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia.",$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity - Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity - Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin include anemia, granulocytopenia and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (AST, ALT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity : Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity : Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin sulfate include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin include increased serum transaminases (SGOT, SGPT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Neurotoxicity : Adverse effects on both the vestibular and auditory branches of the eighth nerve have been noted, especially in patients receiving high doses or prolonged therapy, in those given previous courses of therapy with an ototoxin, and in cases of dehydration. Symptoms include dizziness, vertigo, tinnitus, roaring in the ears, and hearing loss. Hearing loss is usually irreversible and is manifested initially by diminution of high-tone acuity. Tobramycin and gentamicin sulfates closely parallel each other in regard to ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity : Renal function changes, as shown by rising BUN, NPN, and serum creatinine and by oliguria, cylindruria, and increased proteinuria, have been reported, especially in patients with a history of renal impairment who are treated for longer periods or with higher doses than those recommended. Adverse renal effects can occur in patients with initially normal renal function. Clinical studies and studies in experimental animals have been conducted to compare the nephrotoxic potential of tobramycin and gentamicin. In some of the clinical studies and in the animal studies, tobramycin caused nephrotoxicity significantly less frequently than gentamicin. In some other clinical studies, no significant difference in the incidence of nephrotoxicity between tobramycin and gentamicin was found. Other reported adverse reactions possibly related to tobramycin sulfate include anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia; and fever, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, itching, urticaria, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, lethargy, pain at the injection site, mental confusion, and disorientation. Laboratory abnormalities possibly related to tobramycin sulfate include increased serum transaminases (SGOT, SGPT); increased serum LDH and bilirubin; decreased serum calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium; and leukopenia, leukocytosis, and eosinophilia. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1-800-323-0000 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution is localized ocular toxicity and hypersensitivity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution is localized ocular toxicity and hypersensitivity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution is localized ocular toxicity and hypersensitivity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from tobramycin therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. Close"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP, 0.3% are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP, 0.3%. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution USP, 0.3% therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to TOBREX(R) Ophthalmic Solution are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with TOBREX(R). Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from TOBREX(R) (tobramycin ophthalmic solution) 0.3% therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to TOBREX(R) (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3% are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with TOBREX(R) (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3%. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from TOBREX(R) (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3% therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. In clinical trials, TOBREX(R) (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3 % produced significantly fewer adverse reactions (3.7%) than did GARAMYCIN(R) Ophthalmic Ointment (10.6%)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to TOBREX (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3% are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity, including lid itching and swelling, and conjunctival erythema. These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with TOBREX (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3%. Similar reactions may occur with the topical use of other aminoglycoside antibiotics. Other adverse reactions have not been reported from TOBREX (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3% therapy; however, if topical ocular tobramycin is administered concomitantly with systemic aminoglycoside antibiotics, care should be taken to monitor the total serum concentration. In clinical trials, TOBREX (tobramycin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3% produced significantly fewer adverse reactions (3.7%) than did GARAMYCIN(R) Ophthalmic Ointment (10.6%)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS TOBI was generally well tolerated during two clinical studies in 258 cystic fibrosis patients ranging in age from 6 to 48 years. Patients received TOBI in alternating periods of 28 days on and 28 days off drug in addition to their standard cystic fibrosis therapy for a total of 24 weeks. Voice alteration and tinnitus were the only adverse experiences reported by significantly more TOBI-treated patients. Thirty-three patients (13%) treated with TOBI complained of voice alteration compared to 17 (7%) placebo patients. Voice alteration was more common in the on-drug periods. Eight patients from the TOBI group (3%) reported tinnitus compared to no placebo patients. All episodes were transient, resolved without discontinuation of the TOBI treatment regimen, and were not associated with loss of hearing in audiograms. Tinnitus is one of the sentinel symptoms of cochlear toxicity, and patients with this symptom should be carefully monitored for high frequency hearing loss. The numbers of patients reporting vestibular adverse experiences such as dizziness were similar in the TOBI and placebo groups. Nine (3%) patients in the TOBI group and nine (3%) patients in the placebo group had increases in serum creatinine of at least 50% over baseline. In all nine patients in the TOBI group, creatinine decreased at the next visit. Table 1 lists the percent of patients with treatment-emergent adverse experiences (spontaneously reported and solicited) that occurred in >5% of TOBI patients during the two Phase III studies. Table 1: Percent of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Experiences Occurring in >5% of TOBI Patients 1Includes subjective complaints of fever. 2Includes reported decreases in pulmonary function tests or decreased lung volume on chest radiograph associated with intercurrent illness or study drug administration. Adverse Event TOBI (n=258) % Placebo (n=262) % Cough Increased 46.1 47.3 Pharyngitis 38.0 39.3 Sputum Increased 37.6 39.7 Asthenia 35.7 39.3 Rhinitis 34.5 33.6 Dyspnea 33.7 38.5 Fever1 32.9 43.5 Lung Disorder 31.4 31.3 Headache 26.7 32.1 Chest Pain 26.0 29.8 Sputum Discoloration 21.3 19.8 Hemoptysis 19.4 23.7 Anorexia 18.6 27.9 Lung Function Decreased2 16.3 15.3 Asthma 15.9 20.2 Vomiting 14.0 22.1 Abdominal Pain 12.8 23.7 Voice Alteration 12.8 6.5 Nausea 11.2 16.0 Weight Loss 10.1 15.3 Pain 8.1 12.6 Sinusitis 8.1 9.2 Ear Pain 7.4 8.8 Back Pain 7.0 8.0 Epistaxis 7.0 6.5 Taste Perversion 6.6 6.9 Diarrhea 6.2 10.3 Malaise 6.2 5.3 Lower Respiratory Tract Infection 5.8 8.0 Dizziness 5.8 7.6 Hyperventilation 5.4 9.9 Rash 5.4 6.1 Adverse drug reactions (<5%) occurring more frequently with TOBI in the placebo-controlled studies and assessed as drug-related in >=1% of patients: Ear and labyrinth disorders Tinnitus (3.1%, vs 0% for placebo) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia (4.7%, vs 2.7% for placebo) Infections and infestations Laryngitis (4.3%, vs 3.1% for placebo) Adverse drug reactions derived from spontaneous reports The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of TOBI. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ear and labyrinth disorders Hearing loss (see WARNINGS - Ototoxicity) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Hypersensitivity, pruritus, urticaria, rash Nervous system disorders Aphonia, dysgeusia Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Bronchospasm (see WARNINGS - Bronchospasm), oropharyngeal pain Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Tobramycin inhalation solution was generally well tolerated during two clinical studies in 258 cystic fibrosis patients ranging in age from 6 to 48 years. Patients received tobramycin inhalation solution in alternating periods of 28 days on and 28 days off drug in addition to their standard cystic fibrosis therapy for a total of 24 weeks. Voice alteration and tinnitus were the only adverse experiences reported by significantly more tobramycin inhalation solution-treated patients. Thirty-three patients (13%) treated with tobramycin inhalation solution complained of voice alteration compared to 17 (7%) placebo patients. Voice alteration was more common in the on-drug periods. Eight patients from the tobramycin inhalation solution group (3%) reported tinnitus compared to no placebo patients. All episodes were transient, resolved without discontinuation of the tobramycin inhalation solution treatment regimen, and were not associated with loss of hearing in audiograms. Tinnitus is one of the sentinel symptoms of cochlear toxicity, and patients with this symptom should be carefully monitored for high frequency hearing loss. The numbers of patients reporting vestibular adverse experiences such as dizziness were similar in the tobramycin inhalation solution and placebo groups. Nine (3%) patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group and nine (3%) patients in the placebo group had increases in serum creatinine of at least 50% over baseline. In all nine patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group, creatinine decreased at the next visit. Table 1 lists the percent of patients with treatment-emergent adverse experiences (spontaneously reported and solicited) that occurred in >5% of tobramycin inhalation solution patients during the two Phase III studies. Table 1: Percent of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Experiences Occurring in >5% of Tobramycin Inhalation Solution Patients 1 Includes subjective complaints of fever. 2 Includes reported decreases in pulmonary function tests or decreased lung volume on chest radiograph associated with intercurrent illness or study drug administration Adverse Event Tobramycin Inhalation Solution (n=258) % Placebo (n=262) % Cough Increased 46.1 47.3 Pharyngitis 38.0 39.3 Sputum Increased 37.6 39.7 Asthenia 35.7 39.3 Rhinitis 34.5 33.6 Dyspnea 33.7 38.5 Fever1 32.9 43.5 Lung Disorder 31.4 31.3 Headache 26.7 32.1 Chest Pain 26.0 29.8 Sputum Discoloration 21.3 19.8 Hemoptysis 19.4 23.7 Anorexia 18.6 27.9 Lung Function Decreased2 16.3 15.3 Asthma 15.9 20.2 Vomiting 14.0 22.1 Abdominal Pain 12.8 23.7 Voice Alteration 12.8 6.5 Nausea 11.2 16.0 Weight Loss 10.1 15.3 Pain 8.1 12.6 Sinusitis 8.1 9.2 Ear Pain 7.4 8.8 Back Pain 7.0 8.0 Epistaxis 7.0 6.5 Taste Perversion 6.6 6.9 Diarrhea 6.2 10.3 Malaise 6.2 5.3 Lower Respiratory Tract Infection 5.8 8.0 Dizziness 5.8 7.6 Hyperventilation 5.4 9.9 Rash 5.4 6.1 Adverse drug reactions (<5%) occurring more frequently with tobramycin inhalation solution in the placebo-controlled studies and assessed as drug-related in >=1% of patients: Ear and labyrinth disorders Tinnitus (3.1%, vs 0% for placebo) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia (4.7%, vs 2.7% for placebo) Infections and infestations Laryngitis (4.3%, vs 3.1% for placebo) Adverse drug reactions derived from spontaneous reports The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of tobramycin inhalation solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ear and labyrinth disorders Hearing loss (see WARNINGS - Ototoxicity) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Hypersensitivity, pruritus, urticaria, rash Nervous system disorders Aphonia, dysgeusia Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Bronchospasm (see WARNINGS - Bronchospasm), oropharyngeal pain"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Tobramycin inhalation solution was generally well tolerated during two clinical studies in 258 cystic fibrosis patients ranging in age from 6 to 48 years. Patients received tobramycin inhalation solution in alternating periods of 28 days on and 28 days off drug in addition to their standard cystic fibrosis therapy for a total of 24 weeks. Voice alteration and tinnitus were the only adverse experiences reported by significantly more tobramycin inhalation solution-treated patients. Thirty-three patients (13%) treated with tobramycin inhalation solution complained of voice alteration compared to 17 (7%) placebo patients. Voice alteration was more common in the on-drug periods. Eight patients from the tobramycin inhalation solution group (3%) reported tinnitus compared to no placebo patients. All episodes were transient, resolved without discontinuation of the tobramycin inhalation solution treatment regimen, and were not associated with loss of hearing in audiograms. Tinnitus is one of the sentinel symptoms of cochlear toxicity, and patients with this symptom should be carefully monitored for high frequency hearing loss. The numbers of patients reporting vestibular adverse experiences such as dizziness were similar in the tobramycin inhalation solution and placebo groups. Nine (3%) patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group and nine (3%) patients in the placebo group had increases in serum creatinine of at least 50% over baseline. In all nine patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group, creatinine decreased at the next visit. Table 1 lists the percent of patients with treatment-emergent adverse experiences (spontaneously reported and solicited) that occurred in >5% of tobramycin inhalation solution patients during the two Phase III studies. Table 1: Percent of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Experiences Occurring in >5% of Tobramycin Inhalation Solution Patients Adverse Event Tobramycin Inhalation Solution (n=258) % Placebo (n=262) % Cough Increased 46.1 47.3 Pharyngitis 38 39.3 Sputum Increased 37.6 39.7 Asthenia 35.7 39.3 Rhinitis 34.5 33.6 Dyspnea 33.7 38.5 Fever1 32.9 43.5 Lung Disorder 31.4 31.3 Headache 26.7 32.1 Chest Pain 26 29.8 Sputum Discoloration 21.3 19.8 Hemoptysis 19.4 23.7 Anorexia 18.6 27.9 Lung Function Decreased2 16.3 15.3 Asthma 15.9 20.2 Vomiting 14 22.1 Abdominal Pain 12.8 23.7 Voice Alteration 12.8 6.5 Nausea 11.2 16 Weight Loss 10.1 15.3 Pain 8.1 12.6 Sinusitis 8.1 9.2 Ear Pain 7.4 8.8 Back Pain 7 8 Epistaxis 7 6.5 Taste Perversion 6.6 6.9 Diarrhea 6.2 10.3 Malaise 6.2 5.3 Lower Respiratory Tract Infection 5.8 8 Dizziness 5.8 7.6 Hyperventilation 5.4 9.9 Rash 5.4 6.1 1 Includes subjective complaints of fever. 2 Includes reported decreases in pulmonary function tests or decreased lung volume on chest radiograph associated with intercurrent illness or study drug administration. Adverse drug reactions (<5%) occurring more frequently with tobramycin inhalation solution in the placebo-controlled studies and assessed as drug-related in >=1% of patients: Ear and labyrinth disorders Tinnitus (3.1%, vs 0% for placebo) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia (4.7%, vs 2.7% for placebo) Infections and infestations Laryngitis (4.3%, vs 3.1% for placebo) Adverse drug reactions derived from spontaneous reports The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of tobramycin inhalation solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ear and labyrinth disorders Hearing loss (see WARNINGS - Ototoxicity ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Hypersensitivity, pruritus, urticaria, rash Nervous system disorders Aphonia, dysgeusia Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Bronchospasm (see WARNINGS - Bronchospasm ), oropharyngeal pain"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Tobramycin inhalation solution was generally well tolerated during two clinical studies in 258 cystic fibrosis patients ranging in age from 6 to 48 years. Patients received tobramycin inhalation solution in alternating periods of 28 days on and 28 days off drug in addition to their standard cystic fibrosis therapy for a total of 24 weeks. Voice alteration and tinnitus were the only adverse experiences reported by significantly more tobramycin inhalation solution-treated patients. Thirty-three patients (13%) treated with tobramycin inhalation solution complained of voice alteration compared to 17 (7%) placebo patients. Voice alteration was more common in the on-drug periods. Eight patients from the tobramycin inhalation solution group (3%) reported tinnitus compared to no placebo patients. All episodes were transient, resolved without discontinuation of the tobramycin inhalation solution treatment regimen, and were not associated with loss of hearing in audiograms. Tinnitus is one of the sentinel symptoms of cochlear toxicity, and patients with this symptom should be carefully monitored for high frequency hearing loss. The numbers of patients reporting vestibular adverse experiences such as dizziness were similar in the tobramycin inhalation solution and placebo groups. Nine (3%) patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group and nine (3%) patients in the placebo group had increases in serum creatinine of at least 50% over baseline. In all nine patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group, creatinine decreased at the next visit. Table 1 lists the percent of patients with treatment-emergent adverse experiences (spontaneously reported and solicited) that occurred in > 5% of tobramycin inhalation solution patients during the two Phase III studies. Table 1: Percent of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Experiences Occurring in > 5% of Tobramycin Inhalation Solution Patients Adverse Event Tobramycin Inhalation Solution Placebo (n = 258) (n = 262) % % Cough Increased 46.1 47.3 Pharyngitis 38 39.3 Sputum Increased 37.6 39.7 Asthenia 35.7 39.3 Rhinitis 34.5 33.6 Dyspnea 33.7 38.5 FeverIncludes subjective complaints of fever. 32.9 43.5 Lung Disorder 31.4 31.3 Headache 26.7 32.1 Chest Pain 26 29.8 Sputum Discoloration 21.3 19.8 Hemoptysis 19.4 23.7 Anorexia 18.6 27.9 Lung Function DecreasedIncludes reported decreases in pulmonary function tests or decreased lung volume on chest radiograph associated with intercurrent illness or study drug administration. 16.3 15.3 Asthma 15.9 20.2 Vomiting 14 22.1 Abdominal Pain 12.8 23.7 Voice Alteration 12.8 6.5 Nausea 11.2 16 Weight Loss 10.1 15.3 Pain 8.1 12.6 Sinusitis 8.1 9.2 Ear Pain 7.4 8.8 Back Pain 7 8 Epistaxis 7 6.5 Taste Perversion 6.6 6.9 Diarrhea 6.2 10.3 Malaise 6.2 5.3 Lower Respiratory Tract Infection 5.8 8 Dizziness 5.8 7.6 Hyperventilation 5.4 9.9 Rash 5.4 6.1 Adverse drug reactions (< 5%) occurring more frequently with tobramycin inhalation solution in the placebo-controlled studies and assessed as drug-related in >= 1% of patients: Ear and labyrinth disorders Tinnitus (3.1%, vs 0% for placebo) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia (4.7%, vs 2.7% for placebo) Infections and infestations Laryngitis (4.3%, vs 3.1% for placebo) Adverse Drug Reactions Derived From Spontaneous Reports The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of tobramycin inhalation solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ear and labyrinth disorders Hearing loss (see WARNINGS, Ototoxicity ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Hypersensitivity, pruritus, urticaria, rash Nervous system disorders Aphonia, dysgeusia Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Bronchospasm (see WARNINGS, Bronchospasm ), oropharyngeal pain Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or http://www.fda.gov/ for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Tobramycin inhalation solution was generally well tolerated during two clinical studies in 258 cystic fibrosis patients ranging in age from 6 to 48 years. Patients received tobramycin inhalation solution in alternating periods of 28 days on and 28 days off drug in addition to their standard cystic fibrosis therapy for a total of 24 weeks. Voice alteration and tinnitus were the only adverse experiences reported by significantly more tobramycin inhalation solution-treated patients. Thirty-three patients (13%) treated with tobramycin inhalation solution complained of voice alteration compared to 17 (7%) placebo patients. Voice alteration was more common in the on-drug periods. Eight patients from the tobramycin inhalation solution group (3%) reported tinnitus compared to no placebo patients. All episodes were transient, resolved without discontinuation of the tobramycin inhalation solution treatment regimen, and were not associated with loss of hearing in audiograms. Tinnitus is one of the sentinel symptoms of cochlear toxicity, and patients with this symptom should be carefully monitored for high frequency hearing loss. The numbers of patients reporting vestibular adverse experiences such as dizziness were similar in the tobramycin inhalation solution and placebo groups. Nine (3%) patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group and nine (3%) patients in the placebo group had increases in serum creatinine of at least 50% over baseline. In all nine patients in the tobramycin inhalation solution group, creatinine decreased at the next visit. Table 1 lists the percent of patients with treatment-emergent adverse experiences (spontaneously reported and solicited) that occurred in >5% of tobramycin inhalation solution patients during the two Phase III studies. Table 1: Percent of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Experiences Occurring in >5% of Tobramycin Inhalation Solution, USP Patients Adverse Event Tobramycin Inhalation Solution (n=258) % Placebo (n=262) % Cough Increased 46.1 47.3 Pharyngitis 38.0 39.3 Sputum Increased 37.6 39.7 Asthenia 35.7 39.3 Rhinitis 34.5 33.6 Dyspnea 33.7 38.5 FeverIncludes subjective complaints of fever. 32.9 43.5 Lung Disorder 31.4 31.3 Headache 26.7 32.1 Chest Pain 26.0 29.8 Sputum Discoloration 21.3 19.8 Hemoptysis 19.4 23.7 Anorexia 18.6 27.9 Lung Function DecreasedIncludes reported decreases in pulmonary function tests or decreased lung volume on chest radiograph associated with intercurrent illness or study drug administration. 16.3 15.3 Asthma 15.9 20.2 Vomiting 14.0 22.1 Abdominal Pain 12.8 23.7 Voice Alteration 12.8 6.5 Nausea 11.2 16.0 Weight Loss 10.1 15.3 Pain 8.1 12.6 Sinusitis 8.1 9.2 Ear Pain 7.4 8.8 Back Pain 7.0 8.0 Epistaxis 7.0 6.5 Taste Perversion 6.6 6.9 Diarrhea 6.2 10.3 Malaise 6.2 5.3 Lower Respiratory Tract Infection 5.8 8.0 Dizziness 5.8 7.6 Hyperventilation 5.4 9.9 Rash 5.4 6.1 Adverse drug reactions (<5%) occurring more frequently with tobramycin inhalation solution in the placebo-controlled studies and assessed as drug-related in >=1% of patients: Ear and labyrinth disorders Tinnitus (3.1%, vs 0% for placebo) Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Myalgia (4.7%, vs 2.7% for placebo) Infections and infestations Laryngitis (4.3%, vs 3.1% for placebo) Adverse drug reactions derived from spontaneous reports The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of tobramycin inhalation solution. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Ear and labyrinth disorders Hearing loss (see WARNINGS-Ototoxicity) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Hypersensitivity, pruritus, urticaria, rash Nervous system disorders Aphonia, dysgeusia Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Bronchospasm (see WARNINGS-Bronchospasm), oropharyngeal pain, sputum increased, chest pain Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite"$$
"Drug Interactions In clinical studies of TOBI, patients taking TOBI concomitantly with dornase alfa (PULMOZYME, Genentech), \\303\\237-agonists, inhaled corticosteroids, other anti-pseudomonal antibiotics, or parenteral aminoglycosides demonstrated adverse experience profiles similar to the study population as a whole. Concurrent and/or sequential use of TOBI with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering antibiotic concentrations in serum and tissue. TOBI should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol. The interaction between inhaled mannitol and TOBI has not been evaluated."$$
"Drug Interactions In clinical studies of tobramycin inhalation solution, patients taking tobramycin inhalation solution concomitantly with dornase alfa (PULMOZYME, Genentech), \\303\\237-agonists, inhaled corticosteroids, other anti-pseudomonal antibiotics, or parenteral aminoglycosides demonstrated adverse experience profiles similar to the study population as a whole. Concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin inhalation solution with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering antibiotic concentrations in serum and tissue. Tobramycin inhalation solution should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol. The interaction between inhaled mannitol and tobramycin inhalation solution has not been evaluated."$$
"Drug Interactions In clinical studies of tobramycin inhalation solution, patients taking tobramycin inhalation solution concomitantly with dornase alfa (PULMOZYME(R), Genentech), \\303\\237-agonists, inhaled corticosteroids, other anti-pseudomonal antibiotics, or parenteral aminoglycosides demonstrated adverse experience profiles similar to the study population as a whole. Concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin inhalation solution with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering antibiotic concentrations in serum and tissue. Tobramycin inhalation solution should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol. The interaction between inhaled mannitol and tobramycin inhalation solution has not been evaluated."$$
