"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Caution should be exercised when prescribing BETHKIS to patients with known or suspected auditory, vestibular, renal, or neuromuscular dysfunction. (5.1, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.5) Aminoglycoside may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function. (5.3) Bronchospasm can occur with inhalation of BETHKIS. (5.4) Audiograms, serum concentration, and renal function should be monitored as appropriate. (5.2 and 5.5) Fetal harm can occur when aminoglycosides are administered to a pregnant woman. Apprise women of the potential hazard to the fetus. (5.5) 5.1 Ototoxicity Caution should be exercised when prescribing BETHKIS to patients with known or suspected auditory or vestibular dysfunction. Findings related to ototoxicity as measured by audiometric evaluations and auditory adverse event reports were similar between BETHKIS and placebo in controlled clinical trials. Hearing loss was reported in two (1.1%) BETHKIS-treated patients and in one (0.9%) placebo-treated patient during clinical studies. Additionally, dizziness and vertigo, both of which may be manifestations of vestibular forms of ototoxicity, were observed in similar numbers of BETHKIS- and placebo-treated patients. Dizziness occurred in two (1.1%) BETHKIS-treated patients and one (0.9%) placebo-treated patient and vertigo occurred in two (1.1%) BETHKIS-treated patients versus no placebo patients in clinical studies. None of the BETHKIS patients discontinued their therapy due to hearing loss, dizziness or vertigo. Tinnitus may be a sentinel symptom of ototoxicity. No reports of tinnitus occurred in patients during clinical studies with BETHKIS, but because it has been observed with inhaled tobramycin solutions, onset of this symptom warrants caution. Ototoxicity, manifested as both auditory and vestibular toxicity, has been reported with parenteral aminoglycosides. Vestibular toxicity may be manifested by vertigo, ataxia or dizziness. 5.2 Nephrotoxicity Caution should be exercised when prescribing BETHKIS to patients with known or suspected renal dysfunction. Nephrotoxicity was not seen during BETHKIS clinical studies but has been associated with aminoglycosides as a class. If nephrotoxicity occurs in a patient receiving BETHKIS, therapy should be discontinued until serum concentrations fall below 2 mcg/mL. Twenty-six (14%) BETHKIS patients and 15 (13%) placebo patients had increases in serum creatinine of at least 50% over baseline. Follow-up values were obtained for 17 of the 26 BETHKIS patients, all of which decreased to serum creatinine values that were within normal laboratory ranges. Patients who experience an increase in serum creatinine during treatment with BETHKIS should have their renal function closely monitored. 5.3 Neuromuscular Disorders BETHKIS should be used cautiously in patients with muscular disorders, such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson's disease, since aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function. 5.4 Bronchospasm Bronchospasm can occur with inhalation of tobramycin. In clinical studies with BETHKIS, bronchospasm was observed in one (0.5%) BETHKIS-treated patient and in no placebo-treated patients. Wheezing occurred in ten (5%) BETHKIS-treated patients and four (4%) placebo-treated patients. Bronchospasm and wheezing should be treated as medically appropriate. 5.5 Laboratory Tests 5.5.1 Audiograms Clinical studies of inhaled tobramycin solutions did not identify hearing loss using audiometric tests which evaluated hearing up to 8000 Hz. Physicians should consider an audiogram for patients who show any evidence of auditory dysfunction, or who are at increased risk for auditory dysfunction.Tinnitus may be a sentinel symptom of ototoxicity, and therefore the onset of this symptom warrants caution. 5.5.2 Serum Concentrations In patients with normal renal function treated with BETHKIS, serum tobramycin concentrations range from approximately 0.06-1.89 mcg/mL one hour after dose administration and do not require routine monitoring. Serum concentrations of tobramycin in patients with renal dysfunction or patients treated with concomitant parenteral tobramycin should be monitored at the discretion of the treating physician. (See 12.3 ) 5.5.3 Renal Function The clinical studies of BETHKIS did not reveal any imbalance in the percentage of patients who experienced at least a 50% rise in serum creatinine from baseline in either the BETHKIS group (n=26, 14%) or the placebo group (n=15, 13%). Laboratory tests of urine and renal function should be conducted at the discretion of the treating physician. 5.6 Use in Pregnancy Aminoglycosides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Aminoglycosides cross the placenta, and streptomycin has been associated with several reports of total irreversible, bilateral congenital deafness in pediatric patients exposed in utero. Patients who use BETHKIS during pregnancy, or become pregnant while taking BETHKIS should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Caution should be exercised when prescribing TOBI Podhaler to patients with known or suspected auditory, vestibular, renal, or neuromuscular dysfunction (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Ototoxicity, as measured by complaints of hearing loss or tinnitus, was reported in clinical trials (5.1) Aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function (5.3) Bronchospasm can occur with inhalation of TOBI Podhaler (5.4) Audiograms, serum concentrations, and renal function should be monitored as appropriate (5.5) Fetal harm can occur when aminoglycosides are administered to a pregnant woman. Apprise women of the potential hazard to the fetus (5.6) 5.1 Ototoxicity Caution should be exercised when prescribing TOBI Podhaler to patients with known or suspected auditory or vestibular dysfunction. Ototoxicity, as measured by complaints of hearing loss or tinnitus, was reported by patients in the TOBI Podhaler clinical studies [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Tinnitus may be a sentinel symptom of ototoxicity, and therefore the onset of this symptom warrants caution. Ototoxicity, manifested as both auditory (hearing loss) and vestibular toxicity, has been reported with parenteral aminoglycosides. Vestibular toxicity may be manifested by vertigo, ataxia or dizziness. 5.2 Nephrotoxicity Caution should be exercised when prescribing TOBI Podhaler to patients with known or suspected renal dysfunction. Nephrotoxicity was not observed during TOBI Podhaler clinical studies but has been associated with aminoglycosides as a class. 5.3 Neuromuscular Disorders Caution should be exercised when prescribing TOBI Podhaler to patients with known or suspected neuromuscular dysfunction. TOBI Podhaler should be used cautiously in patients with neuromuscular disorders, such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson's disease, since aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness because of a potential curare-like effect on neuromuscular function. 5.4 Bronchospasm Bronchospasm has been reported with inhalation of TOBI Podhaler [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Bronchospasm should be treated as medically appropriate. 5.5 Laboratory Tests Audiograms Physicians should consider an audiogram at baseline, particularly for patients at increased risk of auditory dysfunction. If a patient reports tinnitus or hearing loss during TOBI Podhaler therapy, the physician should refer that patient for audiological assessment. Serum Concentrations In patients treated with TOBI Podhaler, serum tobramycin concentrations are approximately 1 to 2 mcg/mL one hour after dose administration and do not require routine monitoring. Serum concentrations of tobramycin in patients with known or suspected auditory or renal dysfunction or patients treated with a concomitant parenteral aminoglycoside (or other nephrotoxic or ototoxic medications) should be monitored at the discretion of the treating physician. If ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity occurs in a patient receiving TOBI Podhaler, tobramycin therapy should be discontinued until serum concentrations fall below 2 mcg/mL. The serum concentration of tobramycin should only be monitored through venipuncture and not finger prick blood sampling. Contamination of the skin of the fingers with tobramycin may lead to falsely increased measurements of serum levels of the drug. This contamination cannot be completely avoided by hand washing before testing. Renal Function Laboratory tests of urine and renal function should be conducted at the discretion of the treating physician. 5.6 Use in Pregnancy Aminoglycosides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Aminoglycosides cross the placenta, and streptomycin has been associated with several reports of total, irreversible, bilateral congenital deafness in pediatric patients exposed in utero. Patients who use TOBI Podhaler during pregnancy, or become pregnant while taking TOBI Podhaler should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions (more than 5%) occurring more frequently in BETHKIS patients are forced expiratory volume decreased, rales, red blood cell sedimentation rate increased, and dysphonia. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Chiesi USA, Inc. at 1-888- 661-9260 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of drugs cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect exposure to BETHKIS in two placebo-controlled studies in 305 cystic fibrosis patients. Patients receiving BETHKIS ranged in age from 6 to 31 years. In Study 1, an eight week study, 29 patients received BETHKIS versus 30 patients who received placebo for a total of four weeks on drug and four weeks off drug. All patients were <= 30 years of age (mean age 12.6 years) and 46% were females. 52.5% of patients were 6 to 12 years of age while 30.5% of patients were 13-17 years old. Only 16.5% of patients were adults (> 17 years old). Eighty percent (80%) of patients were chronically colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa while 20.3% of patients were initially or intermittently colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa during the study. More patients in the placebo group discontinued/dropped out of Study 1 than in the BETHKIS group (23% [7/30] vs 3.4% [1/29], respectively). Five patients in the placebo group compared to none in the BETHKIS group discontinued/dropped out because of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) such as pulmonary exacerbations and respiratory disorders. In Study 2, a 24 week study, 161 patients received BETHKIS versus 85 patients who received placebo in alternating four week on-off cycles for three cycles. All patients were <= 46 years of age (mean age 14.8 years) and 45% were females. 41% of patients were 6-12 years old while 29% of patients were 13-17 years old. Only 30% were adults (>17 years). Eighty-seven percent (87%) of patients were chronically colonized with P. aeruginosa. Only 13% were either initially or intermittently colonized with P. aeruginosa during the study. More patients in the placebo group discontinued/dropped out of Study 2 than in the BETHKIS group (9.4% [8/85] vs 4.3% [7/161], respectively). Of these, 3 patients in the BETHKIS group (1.9%) compared to 2 patients in the placebo group (2.4%) withdrew due to a TEAE. The most common TEAEs causing patients to discontinue from the study drug are respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders. The most common adverse experiences reported were respiratory disorders, consistent with the underlying disease in the patient population being evaluated and these were similarly distributed between both BETHKIS- and placebo-treated patients. The following adverse reactions were reported in at least 5% of Bethkis-treated patients and at rates >= 2% more common compared to the placebo-treated patients: decreased forced expiratory volume, rales, red blood cell sedimentation rate increased, and dysphonia (Table 1). Table 1: Patients with Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Occurring in >= 2% of BETHKIS Patients Adverse Reactions BETHKIS N=190 (%) Placebo N=115 (%) Forced expiratory volume decreased 59 (31%) 33 (29%) Rales 36 (19%) 18 (16%) Red blood cell sedimentation rate increased 16 (8%) 6 (5%) Dysphonia 11 (6%) 2 (2%) Wheezing 10 (5%) 4 (4%) Epistaxis 6 (3%) 0 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 5 (3%) 2 (2%) Bronchitis 5 (3%) 1 (1%) Tonsillitis 4 (2%) 0 Diarrhea 3 (2%) 1 (1%) Eosinophilia 3 (2%) 0 Immunoglobulins increased 3 (2%) 0 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In postmarketing experience, some patients receiving inhaled tobramycin have reported hearing loss. Some of these reports occurred in patients with previous or concomitant treatment with systemic aminoglycosides. Patients with hearing loss frequently reported tinnitus (see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS, Ototoxicity (5.1)). Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (>=10 % of TOBI Podhaler and TOBI patients in primary safety population) are cough, lung disorder, productive cough, dyspnea, pyrexia, oropharyngeal pain, dysphonia, hemoptysis, and headache (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. TOBI Podhaler has been evaluated for safety in 425 cystic fibrosis patients exposed to at least one dose of TOBI Podhaler, including 273 patients who were exposed across three cycles (6 months) of treatment. Each cycle consisted of 28 days on-treatment (with 112 mg administered twice-daily) and 28 days off-treatment. Patients with serum creatinine >=2 mg/dL and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) >=40 mg/dL were excluded from clinical studies. There were 218 males and 207 females in this population, and reflecting the cystic fibrosis population in the U.S., the vast majority of patients were Caucasian. There were 221 patients >=20 years old, 121 patients >=13 to <20 years old, and 83 patients >=6 to <13 years old. There were 239 patients with screening FEV1 % predicted >=50%, 156 patients with screening FEV1 % predicted <50%, and 30 patients with missing FEV1 % predicted. The primary safety population reflects patients from Study 1, an open-label study comparing TOBI Podhaler with TOBI (tobramycin inhalation solution, USP) over three cycles of 4 weeks on treatment followed by 4 weeks off treatment. Randomization, in a planned 3:2 ratio, resulted in 308 patients treated with TOBI Podhaler and 209 patients treated with TOBI. For both the TOBI Podhaler and TOBI groups, mean exposure to medication for each cycle was 28 to 29 days. The mean age for both arms was between 25 and 26 years old. The mean baseline FEV1 % predicted for both arms was 53%. Table 1 displays adverse drug reactions reported by at least 2% of TOBI Podhaler patients in Study 1, inclusive of all cycles (on and off treatment). Adverse drug reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class and sorted within system organ class group in descending order of frequency. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Reported in Study 1 (Occurring in >=2% of TOBI Podhaler Patients) 1This includes adverse events of pulmonary or cystic fibrosis exacerbations Primary System Organ Class Preferred Term TOBI Podhaler N=308 % TOBI N=209 % Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Cough 48.4 31.1 Lung disorder1 33.8 30.1 Productive cough 18.2 19.6 Dyspnea 15.6 12.4 Oropharyngeal pain 14.0 10.5 Dysphonia 13.6 3.8 Hemoptysis 13.0 12.4 Nasal congestion 8.1 7.2 Rales 7.1 6.2 Wheezing 6.8 6.2 Chest discomfort 6.5 2.9 Throat irritation 4.5 1.9 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 7.5 9.6 Vomiting 6.2 5.7 Diarrhea 4.2 1.9 Dysgeusia 3.9 0.5 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection 6.8 8.6 Investigations Pulmonary function test decreased 6.8 8.1 Forced expiratory volume decreased 3.9 1.0 Blood glucose increased 2.9 0.5 Vascular disorders Epistaxis 2.6 1.9 Nervous system disorders Headache 11.4 12.0 General disorders and administration site conditions Pyrexia 15.6 12.4 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Musculoskeletal chest pain 4.5 4.8 Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Rash 2.3 2.4 Adverse drug reactions that occurred in <2% of patients treated with TOBI Podhaler in Study 1 were: bronchospasm (TOBI Podhaler 1.6%, TOBI 0.5%); deafness including deafness unilateral (reported as mild to moderate hearing loss or increased hearing loss) (TOBI Podhaler 1.0%, TOBI 0.5%); and tinnitus (TOBI Podhaler 1.9%, TOBI 2.4%). Discontinuations in Study 1 were higher in the TOBI Podhaler arm compared to TOBI (27% TOBI Podhaler versus 18% TOBI). This was driven primarily by discontinuations due to adverse events (14% TOBI Podhaler versus 8% TOBI). Higher rates of discontinuation were seen in subjects >=20 years old and those with baseline FEV1 % predicted <50%. Respiratory related hospitalizations occurred in 24% of the patients in the TOBI Podhaler arm and 22% of the patients in the TOBI arm. There was an increased new usage of antipseudomonal medication in the TOBI Podhaler arm (65% TOBI Podhaler versus 55% TOBI). This included oral antibiotics in 55% of TOBI Podhaler patients and 40% of TOBI patients and intravenous antibiotics in 35% of TOBI Podhaler patients and 33% of TOBI patients. Median time to first antipseudomonal usage was 89 days in the TOBI Podhaler arm and 112 days in the TOBI arm. The supportive safety population reflects patients from two studies: Study 2, a double-blind, placebo-controlled design for the first treatment cycle, followed by all patients receiving TOBI Podhaler (replaced placebo) for two additional cycles, and Study 3, a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial for one treatment cycle only. Placebo in these studies was inhaled powder without the active ingredient, tobramycin. The patient population for these studies was much younger than in Study 1 (mean age 13 years old). Adverse drug reactions reported more frequently by TOBI Podhaler patients in the placebo-controlled cycle (Cycle 1) of Study 2, which included 46 TOBI Podhaler and 49 placebo patients, were: Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Pharyngolaryngeal pain (TOBI Podhaler 10.9%, placebo 0%); dysphonia (TOBI Podhaler 4.3%, placebo 0%) Gastrointestinal disorders Dysgeusia (TOBI Podhaler 6.5%, placebo 2.0%) Adverse drug reactions reported more frequently by TOBI Podhaler patients in Study 3, which included 30 TOBI Podhaler and 32 placebo patients, were: Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Cough (TOBI Podhaler 10%, placebo 0%) Ear and labyrinth disorders Hypoacusis (TOBI Podhaler 10%, placebo 6.3%) Audiometric Assessment In Study 1, audiology testing was performed in a subset of approximately 25% of TOBI Podhaler (n=78) and TOBI (n=45) patients. Using the criteria for either ear of >=10 dB loss at two consecutive frequencies, >=20 dB loss at any frequency, or loss of response at three consecutive frequencies where responses were previously obtained, five TOBI Podhaler patients and three TOBI patients were judged to have ototoxicity, a ratio similar to the planned 3:2 randomization for this study. Audiology testing was also performed in a subset of patients in both Study 2 (n=13 from the TOBI Podhaler group and n=9 from the placebo group) and Study 3 (n=14 from the TOBI Podhaler group and n=11 from the placebo group). In Study 2, no patients reported hearing complaints but two TOBI Podhaler patients met the criteria for ototoxicity. In Study 3, three TOBI Podhaler and two placebo patients had reports of \\342\\200\\230hypoacusis.' One TOBI Podhaler and two placebo patients met the criteria for ototoxicity. In some patients, ototoxicity was transient or may have been related to a conductive defect. Cough Cough is a common symptom in cystic fibrosis, reported in 42% of the patients in Study 1 at baseline. Cough was the most frequently reported adverse event in Study 1 and was more common in the TOBI Podhaler arm (48% TOBI Podhaler versus 31 % TOBI). There was a higher rate of cough adverse event reporting during the first week of active treatment with TOBI Podhaler (i.e., the first week of Cycle 1). The time to first cough event in the TOBI Podhaler and TOBI groups were similar thereafter. In some patients, cough resulted in discontinuation of TOBI Podhaler treatment. Sixteen patients (5%) receiving treatment with TOBI Podhaler discontinued study treatment due to cough events compared with 2 (1%) in the TOBI treatment group. Children and adolescents coughed more than adults when treated with TOBI Podhaler, yet the adults were more likely to discontinue: of the 16 patients on TOBI Podhaler in Study 1 who discontinued treatment due to cough events, 14 were >=20 years of age, one patient was between the ages of 13 and <20, and one was between the ages of 6 and <13. The rates of bronchospasm (as measured by >=20% decrease in FEV1 % predicted post-dose) were approximately 5% in both treatment groups, and none of these patients experienced concomitant cough. In Study 2, cough was the most commonly reported adverse event during the first cycle of treatment (the double blind period of treatment) and occurred more frequently in placebo-treated patients (26.5%) than patients treated with TOBI Podhaler (13%). Similar percentages of patients in both treatment groups reported cough as a baseline symptom. In Study 3, cough events were reported by three patients in the TOBI Podhaler group (10%) and none in the placebo group (0%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of TOBI Podhaler. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Aphonia, Sputum discolored General disorders and administration site conditions Malaise"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent and/or sequential use of BETHKIS with other drugs with neurotoxic or ototoxic potential should be avoided. (7.1) BETHKIS should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or mannitol. (7.2) 7.1 Drugs with Neurotoxic or Ototoxic Potential Concurrent and/or sequential use of BETHKIS with other drugs with neurotoxic or ototoxic potential should be avoided. 7.2 Ethacrynic Acid, Furosemide, Urea, or Mannitol Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering antibiotic concentrations in serum and tissue. Therefore, BETHKIS should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or mannitol."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinical drug interaction studies have been performed with TOBI Podhaler. In clinical studies, patients receiving TOBI Podhaler continued to take dornase alfa, bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and macrolides. No clinical signs of drug interactions with these medicines were identified. Concurrent and/or sequential use of TOBI Podhaler with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering antibiotic concentrations in serum and tissue. TOBI Podhaler should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol. The interaction between inhaled mannitol and TOBI Podhaler has not been evaluated. Concurrent and/or sequential use of TOBI Podhaler with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided (7)"$$
