
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During placebo-controlled clinical studies in which 1,003 patients received HALCION Tablets, the most troublesome side effects were extensions of the pharmacologic activity of triazolam, eg, drowsiness, dizziness, or light-headedness. The figures cited below are estimates of untoward clinical event incidence among subjects who participated in the relatively short duration (i.e., 1 to 42 days) placebo-controlled clinical trials of HALCION. The figures cannot be used to predict precisely the incidence of untoward events in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors often differ from those in clinical trials. These figures cannot be compared with those obtained from other clinical studies involving related drug products and placebo, as each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions. Comparison of the cited figures, however, can provide the prescriber with some basis for estimating the relative contributions of drug and nondrug factors to the untoward event incidence rate in the population studied. Even this use must be approached cautiously, as a drug may relieve a symptom in one patient while inducing it in others. (For example, an anticholinergic, anxiolytic drug may relieve dry mouth [a sign of anxiety] in some subjects but induce it [an untoward event] in others.) HALCION PLACEBO Number of Patients 1003 997 % Patients Reporting: Central Nervous System Drowsiness 14.0 6.4 Headache 9.7 8.4 Dizziness 7.8 3.1 Nervousness 5.2 4.5 Light-headedness 4.9 0.9 Coordination disorders/ataxia 4.6 0.8 Gastrointestinal Nausea/vomiting 4.6 3.7 In addition to the relatively common (i.e., 1% or greater) untoward events enumerated above, the following adverse events have been reported less frequently (i.e., 0.9% to0.5%): euphoria, tachycardia, tiredness, confusional states/memory impairment, cramps/pain, depression, visual disturbances. Rare (i.e., less than 0.5%) adverse reactions included constipation, taste alterations, diarrhea, dry mouth, dermatitis/allergy, dreaming/nightmares, insomnia, paresthesia, tinnitus, dysesthesia, weakness, congestion, death from hepatic failure in a patient also receiving diuretic drugs. In addition to these untoward events for which estimates of incidence are available, the following adverse events have been reported in association with the use of HALCION and other benzodiazepines: amnestic symptoms (anterograde amnesia with appropriate or inappropriate behavior), confusional states (disorientation, derealization, depersonalization, and/or clouding of consciousness), dystonia, anorexia, fatigue, sedation, slurred speech, jaundice, pruritus, dysarthria, changes in libido, menstrual irregularities, incontinence, and urinary retention. Other factors may contribute to some of these reactions, eg, concomitant intake of alcohol or other drugs, sleep deprivation, an abnormal premorbid state, etc. Other events reported include: paradoxical reactions such as stimulation, mania, an agitational state (restlessness, irritability, and excitation), increased muscle spasticity, sleep disturbances, hallucinations, delusions, aggressiveness, falling, somnambulism, syncope, inappropriate behavior and other adverse behavioral effects. Should these occur, use of the drug should be discontinued. The following events have also been reported: chest pain, burning tongue/glossitis/stomatitis. Laboratory analyses were performed on all patients participating in the clinical program for HALCION. The following incidences of abnormalities were observed in patients receiving HALCION and the corresponding placebo group. None of these changes were considered to be of physiological significance. HALCION PLACEBO Number of Patients 380 361 % of Patients Reporting: Low High Low High Hematology Hematocrit Less than 1% Hemoglobin Total WBC count 1.7 2.1 1.3 Neutrophil count 1.5 1.5 3.3 1.0 Lymphocyte count 2.3 4.0 3.1 3.8 Monocyte count 3.6 4.4 1.5 Eosinophil count 10.2 3.2 9.8 3.4 Basophil count 1.7 2.1 1.8 Urinalysis Albumi \\342\\200\\224 1.1 \\342\\200\\224 Sugar \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 RBC/HPF \\342\\200\\224 2.9 \\342\\200\\224 2.9 WBC/HPF \\342\\200\\224 11.7 \\342\\200\\224 7.9 Blood chemistry Creatinine 2.4 1.9 3.6 1.5 Bilirubin 1.5 1.0 SGOT 5.3 4.5 Alkaline phosphatase 2.2 2.6 When treatment with HALCION is protracted, periodic blood counts, urinalysis, and blood chemistry analyses are advisable. Minor changes in EEG patterns, usually low-voltage fast activity, have been observed in patients during therapy with HALCION and are of no known significance."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During placebo-controlled clinical studies in which 1,003 patients received triazolam tablets, the most troublesome side effects were extensions of the pharmacologic activity of triazolam, eg, drowsiness, dizziness, or light-headedness. The figures cited below are estimates of untoward clinical event incidence among subjects who participated in the relatively short duration (i.e., 1 to 42 days) placebo-controlled clinical trials of triazolam. The figures cannot be used to predict precisely the incidence of untoward events in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors often differ from those in clinical trials. These figures cannot be compared with those obtained from other clinical studies involving related drug products and placebo, as each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions. Comparison of the cited figures, however, can provide the prescriber with some basis for estimating the relative contributions of drug and nondrug factors to the untoward event incidence rate in the population studied. Even this use must be approached cautiously, as a drug may relieve a symptom in one patient while inducing it in others. (For example, an anticholinergic, anxiolytic drug may relieve dry mouth [a sign of anxiety] in some subjects but induce it [an untoward event] in others.) Triazolam PLACEBO Number of Patients 1003 997 % Patients Reporting: Central Nervous System Drowsiness 14.0 6.4 Headache 9.7 8.4 Dizziness 7.8 3.1 Nervousness 5.2 4.5 Light-headedness 4.9 0.9 Coordination disorders/ataxia 4.6 0.8 Gastrointestinal Nausea/vomiting 4.6 3.7 In addition to the relatively common (i.e., 1% or greater) untoward events enumerated above, the following adverse events have been reported less frequently (i.e., 0.9% to0.5%): euphoria, tachycardia, tiredness, confusional states/memory impairment, cramps/pain, depression, visual disturbances. Rare (i.e., less than 0.5%) adverse reactions included constipation, taste alterations, diarrhea, dry mouth, dermatitis/allergy, dreaming/nightmares, insomnia, paresthesia, tinnitus, dysesthesia, weakness, congestion, death from hepatic failure in a patient also receiving diuretic drugs. In addition to these untoward events for which estimates of incidence are available, the following adverse events have been reported in association with the use of triazolam and other benzodiazepines: amnestic symptoms (anterograde amnesia with appropriate or inappropriate behavior), confusional states (disorientation, derealization, depersonalization, and/or clouding of consciousness), dystonia, anorexia, fatigue, sedation, slurred speech, jaundice, pruritus, dysarthria, changes in libido, menstrual irregularities, incontinence, and urinary retention. Other factors may contribute to some of these reactions, eg, concomitant intake of alcohol or other drugs, sleep deprivation, an abnormal premorbid state, etc. Other events reported include: paradoxical reactions such as stimulation, mania, an agitational state (restlessness, irritability, and excitation), increased muscle spasticity, sleep disturbances, hallucinations, delusions, aggressiveness, falling, somnambulism, syncope, inappropriate behavior and other adverse behavioral effects. Should these occur, use of the drug should be discontinued. The following events have also been reported: chest pain, burning tongue/glossitis/stomatitis. Laboratory analyses were performed on all patients participating in the clinical program for triazolam. The following incidences of abnormalities were observed in patients receiving triazolam and the corresponding placebo group. None of these changes were considered to be of physiological significance. Triazolam PLACEBO Number of Patients 380 361 % of Patients Reporting: Low High Low High Hematology Hematocrit Less than 1% Hemoglobin Total WBC count 1.7 2.1 1.3 Neutrophil count 1.5 1.5 3.3 1.0 Lymphocyte count 2.3 4.0 3.1 3.8 Monocyte count 3.6 4.4 1.5 Eosinophil count 10.2 3.2 9.8 3.4 Basophil count 1.7 2.1 1.8 Urinalysis Albumin \\342\\200\\224 1.1 \\342\\200\\224 Sugar \\342\\200\\224 \\342\\200\\224 RBC/HPF \\342\\200\\224 2.9 \\342\\200\\224 2.9 WBC/HPF \\342\\200\\224 11.7 \\342\\200\\224 7.9 Blood chemistry Creatinine 2.4 1.9 3.6 1.5 Bilirubin 1.5 1.0 SGOT 5.3 4.5 Alkaline phosphatase 2.2 2.6 When treatment with triazolam is protracted, periodic blood counts, urinalysis, and blood chemistry analyses are advisable. Minor changes in EEG patterns, usually low-voltage fast activity, have been observed in patients during therapy with triazolam and are of no known significance."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During placebo-controlled clinical studies in which 1,003 patients received triazolam tablets, the most troublesome side effects were extensions of the pharmacologic activity of triazolam, e.g., drowsiness, dizziness, or light-headedness. The figures cited below are estimates of untoward clinical event incidence among subjects who participated in the relatively short duration (i.e., 1 to 42 days) placebo-controlled clinical trials of triazolam. The figures cannot be used to predict precisely the incidence of untoward events in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors often differ from those in clinical trials. These figures cannot be compared with those obtained from other clinical studies involving related drug products and placebo, as each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions. Comparison of the cited figures, however, can provide the prescriber with some basis of estimating the relative contributions of drug and nondrug factors to the untoward event incidence rate in the population studied. Even this use must be approached cautiously, as a drug may relieve a symptom in one patient while inducing it in others. (For example, an anticholinergic, anxiolytic drug may relieve dry mouth [a sign of anxiety] in some subjects but induce it [an untoward event] in others.) Triazolam Placebo Number of Patients 1003 997 % Patients Reporting: Central Nervous System Drowsiness 14 6.4 Headache 9.7 8.4 Dizziness 7.8 3.1 Nervousness 5.2 4.5 Light-headedness 4.9 0.9 Coordination disorders/ataxia 4.6 0.8 Gastrointestinal Nausea/vomiting 4.6 3.7 In addition to the relatively common (i.e., 1% or greater) untoward events enumerated above, the following adverse events have been reported less frequently (i.e., 0.9% to 0.5%): euphoria, tachycardia, tiredness, confusional states/memory impairment, cramps/pain, depression, visual disturbances. Rare (i.e., less than 0.5%) adverse reactions included constipation, taste alterations, diarrhea, dry mouth, dermatitis/allergy, dreaming/nightmares, insomnia, paresthesia, tinnitus, dysesthesia, weakness, congestion, death from hepatic failure in a patient also receiving diuretic drugs. In addition to these untoward events for which estimates of incidence are available, the following adverse events have been reported in association with the use of triazolam and other benzodiazepines: amnestic symptoms (anterograde amnesia with appropriate or inappropriate behavior), confusional states (disorientation, derealization, depersonalization, and/or clouding of consciousness), dystonia, anorexia, fatigue, sedation, slurred speech, jaundice, pruritus, dysarthria, changes in libido, menstrual irregularities, incontinence, and urinary retention. Other factors may contribute to some of these reactions, e.g., concomitant intake of alcohol or other drugs, sleep deprivation, an abnormal premorbid state, etc. Other events reported include: paradoxical reactions such as stimulation, mania, an agitational state (restlessness, irritability, and excitation), increased muscle spasticity, sleep disturbances, hallucinations, delusions, aggressiveness, falling, somnambulism, syncope, inappropriate behavior and other adverse behavioral effects. Should these occur, use of the drug should be discontinued. The following events have also been reported: chest pain, burning tongue/glossitis/stomatitis. Laboratory analyses were performed on all patients participating in the clinical program for triazolam. The following incidences of abnormalities were observed in patients receiving triazolam and the corresponding placebo group. None of these changes were considered to be of physiological significance. Triazolam Placebo Number of patients 380 361 % of Patients Reporting Low High Low High Hematology Hematocrit * * * * Hemoglobin * * * * Total WBC count 1.7 2.1 * 1.3 Neutrophil count 1.5 1.5 3.3 1 Lymphocyte count 2.3 4 3.1 3.8 Monocyte count 3.6 * 4.4 1.5 Eosinophil count 10.2 3.2 9.8 3.4 Basophil count 1.7 2.1 * 1.8 Urinalysis Albumin - 1.1 - * Sugar - * - * RBC/HPF - 2.9 - 2.9 WBC/HPF - 11.7 - 7.9 Blood chemistry Creatinine 2.4 1.9 3.6 1.5 Bilirubin * 1.5 1 * SGOT * 5.3 * 4.5 Alkaline phosphatase * 2.2 * 2.6 *Less than 1% When treatment with triazolam is protracted, periodic blood counts, urinalysis, and blood chemistry analyses are advisable. Minor changes in EEG patterns, usually low-voltage fast activity, have been observed in patients during therapy with triazolam and are of no known significance."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS During placebo-controlled clinical studies in which 1,003 patients received triazolam tablets, the most troublesome side effects were extensions of the pharmacologic activity of triazolam, e.g., drowsiness, dizziness, or light-headedness. The figures cited below are estimates of untoward clinical event incidence among subjects who participated in the relatively short duration (i.e., 1 to 42 days) placebo-controlled clinical trials of triazolam. The figures cannot be used to predict precisely the incidence of untoward events in the course of usual medical practice where patient characteristics and other factors often differ from those in clinical trials. These figures cannot be compared with those obtained from other clinical studies involving related drug products and placebo, as each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions. Comparison of the cited figures, however, can provide the prescriber with some basis of estimating the relative contributions of drug and nondrug factors to the untoward event incidence rate in the population studied. Even this use must be approached cautiously, as a drug may relieve a symptom in one patient while inducing it in others. (For example, an anticholinergic, anxiolytic drug may relieve dry mouth [a sign of anxiety] in some subjects but induce it [an untoward event] in others.) Triazolam Placebo Number of Patients 1003 997 % Patients Reporting: Central Nervous System Drowsiness 14 6.4 Headache 9.7 8.4 Dizziness 7.8 3.1 Nervousness 5.2 4.5 Light-headedness 4.9 0.9 Coordination Disorders/Ataxia 4.6 0.8 Gastrointestinal Nausea/Vomiting 4.6 3.7 In addition to the relatively common (i.e., 1% or greater) untoward events enumerated above, the following adverse events have been reported less frequently (i.e., 0.9% to 0.5%): euphoria, tachycardia, tiredness, confusional states/memory impairment, cramps/pain, depression, visual disturbances. Rare (i.e., less than 0.5%) adverse reactions included constipation, taste alterations, diarrhea, dry mouth, dermatitis/allergy, dreaming/nightmares, insomnia, paresthesia, tinnitus, dysesthesia, weakness, congestion, death from hepatic failure in a patient also receiving diuretic drugs. In addition to these untoward events for which estimates of incidence are available, the following adverse events have been reported in association with the use of triazolam and other benzodiazepines: amnestic symptoms (anterograde amnesia with appropriate or inappropriate behavior), confusional states (disorientation, derealization, depersonalization, and/or clouding of consciousness), dystonia, anorexia, fatigue, sedation, slurred speech, jaundice, pruritus, dysarthria, changes in libido, menstrual irregularities, incontinence, and urinary retention. Other factors may contribute to some of these reactions, e.g., concomitant intake of alcohol or other drugs, sleep deprivation, an abnormal premorbid state, etc. Other events reported include: paradoxical reactions such as stimulation, mania, an agitational state (restlessness, irritability, and excitation), increased muscle spasticity, sleep disturbances, hallucinations, delusions, aggressiveness, falling, somnambulism, syncope, inappropriate behavior and other adverse behavioral effects. Should these occur, use of the drug should be discontinued. The following events have also been reported: chest pain, burning tongue/glossitis/stomatitis. Laboratory analyses were performed on all patients participating in the clinical program for triazolam. The following incidences of abnormalities were observed in patients receiving triazolam and the corresponding placebo group. None of these changes were considered to be of physiological significance. Triazolam Placebo Number of Patients 380 361 % of Patients Reporting Low High Low High Hematology Hematocrit * * * * Hemoglobin * * * * Total WBC Count 1.7 2.1 * 1.3 Neutrophil Count 1.5 1.5 3.3 1 Lymphocyte Count 2.3 4 3.1 3.8 Monocyte Count 3.6 * 4.4 1.5 Eosinophil Count 10.2 3.2 9.8 3.4 Basophil Count 1.7 2.1 * 1.8 Urinalysis Albumin - 1.1 - * Sugar - * - * RBC/HPF - 2.9 - 2.9 WBC/HPF - 11.7 - 7.9 Blood Chemistry Creatinine 2.4 1.9 3.6 1.5 Bilirubin * 1.5 1 * SGOT * 5.3 * 4.5 Alkaline Phosphatase * 2.2 * 2.6 *Less than 1% When treatment with triazolam is protracted, periodic blood counts, urinalysis, and blood chemistry analyses are advisable. Minor changes in EEG patterns, usually low-voltage fast activity, have been observed in patients during therapy with triazolam and are of no known significance."$$
"Drug Interactions Both pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported with benzodiazepines. In particular, triazolam produces additive CNS depressant effects when co-administered with other psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistamines, ethanol, and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression. Drugs that Inhibit Triazolam Metabolism Via Cytochrome P450 3A The initial step in triazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP 3A). Drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of triazolam (see and for additional drugs of this type). Triazolam is contraindicated with ketoconazole, itraconazole, and nefazodone. CONTRAINDICATIONS WARNINGS Drugs and Other Substances Demonstrated to be CYP 3A Inhibitors of Possible Clinical Significance on the Basis of Clinical Studies Involving Triazolam (caution is recommended during co-administration with triazolam) Isoniazid Co-administration of isoniazid increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 20%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 31%. Oral Contraceptives Co-administration of oral contraceptives increased maximum plasma concentration by 6%, decreased clearance by 32%, and increased half-life by 16%. Grapefruit Juice Co-administration of grapefruit juice increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 25%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 48%, and increased half-life by 18%. Drugs Demonstrated to be CYP 3A Inhibitors on the Basis of Clinical Studies Involving Benzodiazepines Metabolized Similarly to Triazolam or on the Basis of In Vitro Studies with Triazolam or Other Benzodiazepines (caution is recommended during co-administration with triazolam) Available data from clinical studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: fluvoxamine, diltiazem, and verapamil. Data from studies of triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: sertraline and paroxetine. Data from studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: ergotamine, cyclosporine, amiodarone, nicardipine, and nifedipine. Caution is recommended during co-administration of any of these drugs with triazolam (see ). in vitro in vitro WARNINGS Drugs that Affect Triazolam Pharmacokinetics by Other Mechanisms Ranitidine Co-administration of ranitidine increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 30%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 27%, and increased half-life by 3.3%. Caution is recommended during co-administration with triazolam."$$
"Drug interactions Both pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported with benzodiazepines. In particular, triazolam produces additive CNS depressant effects when coadministered with other psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistamines, ethanol, and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression. Drugs that inhibit triazolam metabolism via cytochrome P450 3A The initial step in triazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP 3A). Drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of triazolam (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS for additional drugs of this type). HALCION is contraindicated with ketoconzaole, itraconazole, nefazodone, and several HIV protease inhibitors. Drugs and other substances demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors of possible clinical significance on the basis of clinical studies involving triazolam (caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam) Isoniazid Coadministration of isoniazid increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 20%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 31%. Oral contraceptives Coadministration of oral contraceptives increased maximum plasma concentration by 6%, decreased clearance by 32%, and increased half-life by 16%. Grapefruit juice Coadministration of grapefruit juice increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 25%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 48%, and increased half-life by 18%. Drugs demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors on the basis of clinical studies involving benzodiazepines metabolized similarly to triazolam or on the basis of in vitro studies with triazolam or other benzodiazepines (caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam) Available data from clinical studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: fluvoxamine, diltiazem, and verapamil. Data from in vitro studies of triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: sertraline and paroxetine. Data from in vitro studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: ergotamine, cyclosporine, amiodarone, nicardipine, and nifedipine. Caution is recommended during coadministration of any of these drugs with triazolam (see WARNINGS). Drugs that affect triazolam pharmacokinetics by other mechanisms Ranitidine Coadministration of ranitidine increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 30%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 27%, and increased half-life by 3.3%. Caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam."$$
"Drug Interactions Both pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported with benzodiazepines. In particular, triazolam produces additive CNS depressant effects when co-administered with other psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistamines, ethanol, and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression. Drugs that Inhibit Triazolam Metabolism Via Cytochrome P450 3A The initial step in triazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP 3A). Drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of triazolam (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS for additional drugs of this type). Triazolam is contraindicated with ketoconazole, itraconazole, and nefazodone. Drugs and Other Substances Demonstrated to be CYP 3A Inhibitors of Possible Clinical Significance on the Basis of Clinical Studies Involving Triazolam (caution is recommended during co-administration with triazolam) Isoniazid Co-administration of isoniazid increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 20%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 31%. Oral Contraceptives Co-administration of oral contraceptives increased maximum plasma concentration by 6%, decreased clearance by 32%, and increased half-life by 16%. Grapefruit Juice Co-administration of grapefruit juice increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 25%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 48%, and increased half-life by 18%. Drugs Demonstrated to be CYP 3A Inhibitors on the Basis of Clinical Studies Involving Benzodiazepines Metabolized Similarly to Triazolam or on the Basis of In Vitro Studies with Triazolam or Other Benzodiazepines (caution is recommended during co-administration with triazolam) Available data from clinical studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: fluvoxamine, diltiazem, and verapamil. Data from in vitro studies of triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: sertraline and paroxetine. Data from in vitro studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: ergotamine, cyclosporine, amiodarone, nicardipine, and nifedipine. Caution is recommended during co-administration of any of these drugs with triazolam (see WARNINGS). Drugs that Affect Triazolam Pharmacokinetics by Other Mechanisms Ranitidine Co-administration of ranitidine increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 30%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 27%, and increased half-life by 3.3%. Caution is recommended during co-administration with triazolam."$$
"Drug interactions Both pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported with benzodiazepines. In particular, triazolam produces additive CNS depressant effects when coadministered with other psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistamines, ethanol, and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression. Drugs that inhibit triazolam metabolism via cytochrome P450 3A The initial step in triazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP 3A). Drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of triazolam (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS for additional drugs of this type). triazolam is contraindicated with ketoconzaole, itraconazole, and nefazodone. Drugs and other substances demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors of possible clinical significance on the basis of clinical studies involving triazolam (caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam) Isoniazid Coadministration of isoniazid increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 20%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 31%. Oral contraceptives Coadministration of oral contraceptives increased maximum plasma concentration by 6%, decreased clearance by 32%, and increased half-life by 16%. Grapefruit juice Coadministration of grapefruit juice increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 25%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 48%, and increased half-life by 18%. Drugs demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors on the basis of clinical studies involving benzodiazepines metabolized similarly to triazolam or on the basis of in vitro studies with triazolam or other benzodiazepines (caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam) Available data from clinical studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: fluvoxamine, diltiazem, and verapamil. Data from in vitro studies of triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: sertraline and paroxetine. Data from in vitro studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: ergotamine, cyclosporine, amiodarone, nicardipine, and nifedipine. Caution is recommended during coadministration of any of these drugs with triazolam (see WARNINGS). Drugs that affect triazolam pharmacokinetics by other mechanisms Ranitidine Coadministration of ranitidine increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 30%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 27%, and increased half-life by 3.3%. Caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam."$$
"Drug interactions Both pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported with benzodiazepines. In particular, triazolam produces additive CNS depressant effects when coadministered with other psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistamines, ethanol, and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression. Drugs that inhibit triazolam metabolism via cytochrome P450 3A The initial step in triazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP 3A). Drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of triazolam (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS for additional drugs of this type). Triazolam is contraindicated with ketoconzaole, itraconazole, nefazodone, and several HIV protease inhibitors. Drugs and other substances demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors of possible clinical significance on the basis of clinical studies involving triazolam (caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam) Isoniazid Coadministration of isoniazid increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 20%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 31%. Oral contraceptives Coadministration of oral contraceptives increased maximum plasma concentration by 6%, decreased clearance by 32%, and increased half-life by 16%. Grapefruit juice Coadministration of grapefruit juice increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 25%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 48%, and increased half-life by 18%. Drugs demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors on the basis of clinical studies involving benzodiazepines metabolized similarly to triazolam or on the basis of in vitro studies with triazolam or other benzodiazepines (caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam) Available data from clinical studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: fluvoxamine, diltiazem, and verapamil. Data from in vitro studies of triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: sertraline and paroxetine. Data from in vitro studies of benzodiazepines other than triazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with triazolam for the following: ergotamine, cyclosporine, amiodarone, nicardipine, and nifedipine. Caution is recommended during coadministration of any of these drugs with triazolam (see WARNINGS). Drugs that affect triazolam pharmacokinetics by other mechanisms Ranitidine Coadministration of ranitidine increased the maximum plasma concentration of triazolam by 30%, increased the area under the concentration curve by 27%, and increased half-life by 3.3%. Caution is recommended during coadministration with triazolam."$$
