"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal septal perforation, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal septal ulcers, nasal surgery, or trauma. (5.1) Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patient with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray slowly. (5.4) Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray. (5.5, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis: In clinical studies of 2 to 12 weeks duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in patients treated with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Nasal Septal Perforation: In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient treated with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray. Candida Infection: In clinical studies with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has rarely occurred. When such an infection develops it may require treatment with appropriate local or systemic therapy and discontinuation of NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray. Therefore, patients using NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Impaired Wound Healing: Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, surgery, or trauma should not use NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma and/or cataracts. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections; systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.4 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression: When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.5 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids, including NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray, may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray, titrate each patient's dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal septal perforation, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal septal ulcers, nasal surgery, or trauma. (5.1) Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patient with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray slowly. (5.4) Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray. (5.5, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis: In clinical studies of 2 to 12 weeks duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in patients treated with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Nasal Septal Perforation: In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient treated with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray. Candida Infection: In clinical studies with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has rarely occurred. When such an infection develops it may require treatment with appropriate local or systemic therapy and discontinuation of Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray. Therefore, patients using Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Impaired Wound Healing: Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, surgery, or trauma should not use Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma and/or cataracts. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections; systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.4 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression: When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.5 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids, including Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray, may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray, titrate each patient's dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Epistaxis, nasal septal perforation, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal septal ulcers, nasal surgery, or trauma. (5.1) - Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2) - Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patient with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3) - Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray slowly. (5.4) - Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. (5.5, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical studies of 2 to 12 weeks duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in patients treated with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Nasal Septal Perforation In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient treated with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Candida Infection In clinical studies with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has rarely occurred. When such an infection develops it may require treatment with appropriate local or systemic therapy and discontinuation of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Therefore, patients using triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, surgery, or trauma should not use triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma and/or cataracts. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections; systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.4 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.5 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray, titrate each patient's dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal septal perforation, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal septal ulcers, nasal surgery, or trauma. (5.1) Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patient with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray slowly. (5.4) Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. (5.5, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical studies of 2 to 12 weeks duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in patients treated with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Nasal Septal Perforation In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient treated with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Candida Infection In clinical studies with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has rarely occurred. When such an infection develops it may require treatment with appropriate local or systemic therapy and discontinuation of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Therefore, patients using triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experience recent nasal ulcers, surgery, or trauma should not use triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma and/or cataracts. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (see the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections; systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.4 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.5 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray, titrate each patient's dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Glaucoma and Cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4, 5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] Most common adverse reactions (>2% incidence) were pharyngitis, epistaxis, flu syndrome, cough increased, bronchitis, dyspepsia, tooth disorder, headache, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasopharyngitis, abdominal upper pain, diarrhea, and excoriation. (6.1) Other adverse reactions, including serious adverse reactions, have been reported. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC at 1-800-633-1610 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In placebo-controlled, double-blind, and open-label clinical studies, 1483 adults and children 12 years and older received treatment with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray. These patients were treated for an average duration of 51 days. In the controlled trials (2-5 weeks duration) from which the following adverse reaction data are derived, 1394 patients were treated with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray for an average of 19 days. In a long-term, open-label study, 172 patients received treatment for an average duration of 286 days. Adverse reactions from 12 studies in adults and adolescent patients 12 to 17 years of age receiving NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray 27.5 mcg to 440 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 1. In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient who received NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray. Table 1 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray 220 mcg treatment in studies in adults and adolescents 12 years and older Placebo (N=962) NASACORT AQ 220 mcg (N=857) Adverse reaction % % Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). Pharyngitis 3.6 5.1 Epistaxis 0.8 2.7 Cough increased 1.5 2.1 A total of 602 children 6 to 12 years of age were studied in 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials. Of these, 172 received 110 mcg/day and 207 received 220 mcg/day of NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray for two, six, or twelve weeks. The longest average durations of treatment for patients receiving 110 mcg/day and 220 mcg/day were 76 days and 80 days, respectively. One percent of patients treated with NASACORT AQ were discontinued due to adverse experiences. No patient receiving 110 mcg/day and one patient receiving 220mcg/day discontinued due to a serious adverse event. A similar adverse reaction profile was observed in pediatric patients 6-12 years of age as compared to adolescents and adults with the exception of epistaxis which occurred in less than 2% of the children studied. Adverse reactions from 2 studies in children 4 to 12 years of age receiving NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 2. Table 2 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray 110 mcg treatment in US studies in patients 4 to 12 years of age Placebo (N=202) NASACORT AQ 110 mcg (N=179) Adverse reaction % % Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). Flu syndrome 7.4 8.9 Cough increased 6.4 8.4 Pharyngitis 6.4 7.8 Bronchitis 1.0 3.4 Dyspepsia 1.0 3.4 Tooth disorder 1.0 3.4 A total of 474 children 2 to 5 years of age were studied in a 4-week double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Of these, 236 received 110 mcg/day of NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray for a mean duration of 28 days. No patient discontinued due to a serious adverse event. Adverse reactions from the single placebo-controlled study in children 2 to 5 years of age receiving NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 3. Table 3 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray 110 mcg treatment in children 2 to 5 years of age Placebo (N=238) NASACORT AQ 110 mcg (N=236) Adverse reactions % % Coding dictionary for adverse events is Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities terminology (MedDRA) Version 8.1 Headache 4.2 5.5 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 4.2 5.5 Epistaxis 5.0 5.1 Nasopharyngitis 3.8 5.1 Abdominal upper pain 0.8 4.7 Diarrhea 1.3 3.0 Asthma 2.1 2.5 Rash 1.7 2.5 Excoriation 0.0 2.5 Rhinorrhea 1.7 2.1 In the event of accidental overdose, an increased potential for these adverse experiences may be expected, but acute systemic adverse experiences are unlikely [see Overdosage (10)]. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse drug reactions reported during clinical studies and listed above, the following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of NASACORT AQ Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Reactions that have been reported during post-marketing experience include: nasal discomfort and congestion, sneezing, alterations of taste and smell, nausea, insomnia, dizziness, fatigue, dyspnea, decreased blood cortisol, cataract, glaucoma, increased ocular pressure, pruritus, rash, and hypersensitivity."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Glaucoma and Cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4, 5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] Most common adverse reactions (>2% incidence) were pharyngitis, epistaxis, flu syndrome, cough increased, bronchitis, dyspepsia, tooth disorder, headache, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasopharyngitis, abdominal upper pain, diarrhea, and excoriation. (6.1) Other adverse reactions, including serious adverse reactions, have been reported. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC at 1-800-633-1610 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In placebo-controlled, double-blind, and open-label clinical studies, 1483 adults and children 12 years and older received treatment with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray. These patients were treated for an average duration of 51 days. In the controlled trials (2-5 weeks duration) from which the following adverse reaction data are derived, 1394 patients were treated with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray for an average of 19 days. In a long-term, open-label study, 172 patients received treatment for an average duration of 286 days. Adverse reactions from 12 studies in adults and adolescent patients 12 to 17 years of age receiving Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray 27.5 mcg to 440 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 1. In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient who received Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray. Table 1 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray 220 mcg treatment in studies in adults and adolescents 12 years and older Placebo (N=962) Triamcinolone Acetonide 220 mcg (N=857) Adverse reaction % % Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). Pharyngitis 3.6 5.1 Epistaxis 0.8 2.7 Cough increased 1.5 2.1 A total of 602 children 6 to 12 years of age were studied in 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials. Of these, 172 received 110 mcg/day and 207 received 220 mcg/day of Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray for two, six, or twelve weeks. The longest average durations of treatment for patients receiving 110 mcg/day and 220 mcg/day were 76 days and 80 days, respectively. One percent of patients treated with Triamcinolone Acetonide were discontinued due to adverse experiences. No patient receiving 110 mcg/day and one patient receiving 220mcg/day discontinued due to a serious adverse event. A similar adverse reaction profile was observed in pediatric patients 6-12 years of age as compared to adolescents and adults with the exception of epistaxis which occurred in less than 2% of the children studied. Adverse reactions from 2 studies in children 4 to 12 years of age receiving Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 2. Table 2 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray 110 mcg treatment in US studies in patients 4 to 12 years of age Placebo (N=202) Triamcinolone Acetonide 110 mcg (N=179) Adverse reaction % % Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). Flu syndrome 7.4 8.9 Cough increased 6.4 8.4 Pharyngitis 6.4 7.8 Bronchitis 1.0 3.4 Dyspepsia 1.0 3.4 Tooth disorder 1.0 3.4 A total of 474 children 2 to 5 years of age were studied in a 4-week double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Of these, 236 received 110 mcg/day of Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray for a mean duration of 28 days. No patient discontinued due to a serious adverse event. Adverse reactions from the single placebo-controlled study in children 2 to 5 years of age receiving Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 3. Table 3 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray 110 mcg treatment in children 2 to 5 years of age Placebo (N=238) Triamcinolone Acetonide 110 mcg (N=236) Adverse reactions % % Coding dictionary for adverse events is Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities terminology (MedDRA) Version 8.1 Headache 4.2 5.5 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 4.2 5.5 Epistaxis 5.0 5.1 Nasopharyngitis 3.8 5.1 Abdominal upper pain 0.8 4.7 Diarrhea 1.3 3.0 Asthma 2.1 2.5 Rash 1.7 2.5 Excoriation 0.0 2.5 Rhinorrhea 1.7 2.1 In the event of accidental overdose, an increased potential for these adverse experiences may be expected, but acute systemic adverse experiences are unlikely [see Overdosage (10)]. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse drug reactions reported during clinical studies and listed above, the following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of Triamcinolone Acetonide Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Reactions that have been reported during post-marketing experience include: nasal discomfort and congestion, sneezing, alterations of taste and smell, nausea, insomnia, dizziness, fatigue, dyspnea, decreased blood cortisol, cataract, glaucoma, increased ocular pressure, pruritus, rash, and hypersensitivity."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: -Epistaxis, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] -Glaucoma and Cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] -Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] -Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4, 5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] - Most common adverse reactions (>2% incidence) were pharyngitis, epistaxis, flu syndrome, cough increased, bronchitis, dyspepsia, tooth disorder, headache, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasopharyngitis, abdominal upper pain, diarrhea, and excoriation. (6.1) - Other adverse reactions, including serious adverse reactions, have been reported. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-866-832-8537 or drug.safety@tevapharm.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience In placebo-controlled, double-blind, and open-label clinical studies, 1483 adults and children 12 years and older received treatment with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. These patients were treated for an average duration of 51 days. In the controlled trials (2-5 weeks duration) from which the following adverse reaction data are derived, 1394 patients were treated with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray for an average of 19 days. In a long-term, open-label study, 172 patients received treatment for an average duration of 286 days. Adverse reactions from 12 studies in adults and adolescent patients 12 to 17 years of age receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 27.5 mcg to 440 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 1. In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient who received triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Table 1 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 220 mcg treatment in studies in adults and adolescents 12 years and older Adverse reactions Placebo (N=962) Triamcinolone Acetonide 220 mcg (N=857) % % Pharyngitis 3.6 5.1 Epistaxis 0.8 2.7 Cough increased 1.5 2.1 Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). A total of 602 children 6 to 12 years of age were studied in 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials. Of these, 172 received 110 mcg/day and 207 received 220 mcg/day of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray for two, six, or twelve weeks. The longest average durations of treatment for patients receiving 110 mcg/day and 220 mcg/day were 76 days and 80 days, respectively. One percent of patients treated with triamcinolone acetonide were discontinued due to adverse experiences. No patient receiving 110 mcg/day and one patient receiving 220 mcg/day discontinued due to a serious adverse event. A similar adverse reaction profile was observed in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age as compared to adolescents and adults with the exception of epistaxis which occurred in less than 2% of the children studied. Adverse reactions from 2 studies in children 4 to 12 years of age receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 110 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 2. Table 2 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 110 mcg treatment in US studies in patients 4 to 12 years of age Adverse reactions Placebo (N=202) Triamcinolone Acetonide 110 mcg (N=179) % % Flu syndrome 7.4 8.9 Cough increased 6.4 8.4 Pharyngitis 6.4 7.8 Bronchitis 1 3.4 Dyspepsia 1 3.4 Tooth disorder 1 3.4 Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). A total of 474 children 2 to 5 years of age were studied in a 4-week double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Of these, 236 received 110 mcg/day of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray for a mean duration of 28 days. No patient discontinued due to a serious adverse event. Adverse reactions from the single placebo-controlled study in children 2 to 5 years of age receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 110 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 3. Table 3 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 110 mcg treatment in children 2 to 5 years of age Adverse reactions Placebo (N=238) Triamcinolone Acetonide 110 mcg (N=236) % % Headache 4.2 5.5 Pharyngolaryngeal pain 4.2 5.5 Epistaxis 5.0 5.1 Nasopharyngitis 3.8 5.1 Abdominal upper pain 0.8 4.7 Diarrhea 1.3 3.0 Asthma 2.1 2.5 Rash 1.7 2.5 Excoriation 0.0 2.5 Rhinorrhea 1.7 2.1 Coding dictionary for adverse events is Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities terminology (MedDRA) Version 8.1 In the event of accidental overdose, an increased potential for these adverse experiences may be expected, but acute systemic adverse experiences are unlikely. [see Overdosage (10) ] 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse drug reactions reported during clinical studies and listed above, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Events that have been reported during post-marketing experience include: nasal discomfort and congestion, sneezing, alterations of taste and smell, nausea, insomnia, dizziness, fatigue, dyspnea, decreased blood cortisol, cataract, glaucoma, increased ocular pressure, pruritus, rash, and hypersensitivity."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Glaucoma and Cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4, 5.5 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4)] Most common adverse reactions (>2% incidence) were pharyngitis, epistaxis, flu syndrome, cough increased, bronchitis, dyspepsia, tooth disorder, headache, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasopharyngitis, abdominal upper pain, diarrhea, and excoriation. (6.1) Other adverse reactions, including serious adverse reactions, have been reported. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at 1-888-838-2872 X6351 or drug.safety@tevausa.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience In placebo-controlled, double-blind, and open-label clinical studies, 1483 adults and children 12 years and older received treatment with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. These patients were treated for an average duration of 51 days. In the controlled trials (2-5 weeks duration) from which the following adverse reaction data are derived, 1394 patients were treated with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray for an average of 19 days. In a long-term, open-label study, 172 patients received treatment for an average duration of 286 days. Adverse reactions from 12 studies in adults and adolescent patients 12 to 17 years of age receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 27.5 mcg to 440 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 1. In clinical trials, nasal septum perforation was reported in one adult patient who received triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Table 1 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 220 mcg treatment in studies in adults and adolescents 12 years and older Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). Placebo (N=962) Triamcinolone Acetonide 220 mcg (N=857) Adverse reaction % % Pharyngitis 3.6 5.1 Epistaxis 0.8 2.7 Cough increased 1.5 2.1 A total of 602 children 6 to 12 years of age were studied in 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials. Of these, 172 received 110 mcg/day and 207 received 220 mcg/day of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray for two, six, or twelve weeks. The longest average durations of treatment for patients receiving 110 mcg/day and 220 mcg/day were 76 days and 80 days, respectively. One percent of patients treated with triamcinolone acetonide were discontinued due to adverse experiences. No patient receiving 110 mcg/day and one patient receiving 220 mcg/day discontinued due to a serious adverse event. A similar adverse reaction profile was observed in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age as compared to adolescents and adults with the exception of epistaxis which occurred in less than 2% of the children studied. Adverse reactions from 2 studies in children 4 to 12 years of age receiving triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 110 mcg once daily are summarized in Table 2. Table 2 - Adverse drug reactions > 2% and greater than placebo with triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray 110 mcg treatment in US studies in patients 4 to 12 years of age Coding dictionary for adverse events is Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms (COSTART). Placebo (N=202) Triamcinolone Acetonide 110 mcg (N=179) Adverse reaction % % Flu syndrome 7.4 8.9 Cough increased 6.4 8.4 Pharyngitis 6.4 7.8 Bronchitis 1 3.4 Dyspepsia 1 3.4 Tooth disorder 1 3.4 Labeling describing adverse events of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray in pediatric patients 2 to 5 years of age is approved for Sanofi-Aventis U.S. Inc.'s Nasacort(R) AQ Nasal Spray. However, due to Sanofi-Aventis U.S. Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, a description of those adverse events is not approved for this triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray labeling. In the event of accidental overdose, an increased potential for these adverse experiences may be expected, but acute systemic adverse experiences are unlikely. [see Overdosage ( 10)] 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience In addition to the adverse drug reactions reported during clinical studies and listed above, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Events that have been reported during post-marketing experience include: nasal discomfort and congestion, sneezing, alterations of taste and smell, nausea, insomnia, dizziness, fatigue, dyspnea, decreased blood cortisol, cataract, glaucoma, increased ocular pressure, pruritus, rash, and hypersensitivity."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: In adequate, well-controlled and uncontrolled studies, 1187 patients have received triamcinolone acetonide solution. The adverse reactions summarized below, are based upon seven placebo controlled clinical trials of 2-6 weeks duration in 847 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis (504 patients received 200 mcg or 400 mcg per day of triamcinolone acetonide solution and 343 patients received vehicle placebo). Adverse events reported by 2% or more of patients (regardless of relationship to treatment) who received triamcinolone acetonide solution 200 or 400 mcg once daily and that were more common with triamcinolone acetonide solution than with placebo are displayed in the table below. Overall, the incidence and nature of adverse events with triamcinolone acetonide solution 400 mcg was comparable to that seen with triamcinolone acetonide solution 200 mcg and with vehicle placebo. ADVERSE EVENTS REPORTED AT A FREQUENCY OF 2% OR GREATER AND MORE COMMON AMONG PATIENTS TREATED WITH TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE SOLUTION THAN PLACEBO REGARDLESS OF RELATIONSHIP TO TREATMENT ADVERSE EVENTS 200 mcg of triamcinolone acetonide once daily n = 204 400 mcg of triamcinolone acetonide once daily n = 300 Combined (200 and 400 mcg) use of triamcinolone acetonide n = 504 Vehicle Placebo n = 343 BODY AS A WHOLE Headache 51.0% 44.3% 47.0% 41.1% Back Pain 7.8% 4.7% 6.0% 3.5% RESPIRATORY SYSTEM Pharyngitis 13.7% 10.3% 11.7% 7.9% Asthma 5.4% 4.3% 4.8% 2.9% Cough Increased 2.0% 2.7% 2.4% 2.3% DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Dyspepsia 4.9% 2.7% 3.6% 2.0% Nausea 2.0% 3.0% 2.6% 0.6% Vomiting 1.5% 2.7% 2.2% 1.5% SPECIAL SENSES Taste Perversion 7.8% 5.0% 6.2% 2.9% Conjunctivitis 4.4% 1.3% 2.6% 1.5% MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM Myalgia 2.5% 3.3% 3.0% 2.6% Adverse events reported by 2% or more of patients who received triamcinolone acetonide solution 200 or 400 mcg once daily and that were more common with placebo than with triamcinolone acetonide solution included: application site reaction (e.g. transient nasal burning and stinging), rhinitis, dysmenorrhea, pain (unspecified) and allergic reaction. The adverse effects related to the irritation of nasal mucous membranes (i.e. application site reaction) did not usually interfere with treatment. In the controlled and uncontrolled studies, approximately 0.3% of patients discontinued because of irritation of nasal mucous membranes."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection) The following adverse reactions may be associated with corticosteroid therapy: Allergic reactions: Anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis including anaphylactic reactions and anaphylactic shock, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, lupus erythematosus-like lesions, purpura, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration [see WARNINGS: Neurologic ]), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, post injection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychic disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration (see WARNINGS: Neurologic ). Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS ( listed alphabetically under each subsection) The following adverse reactions may be associated with corticosteroid therapy Allergic reactions Anaphylaxis including death, angioedema. Cardiovascular Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, lupus erythematosus-like lesions, purpura, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration [see WARNINGS: Neurologic ]), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, post injection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychiatric disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration. Spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke (including brainstem) have been reported after epidural administration of corticosteroids (see WARNINGS: Neurologic ). Ophthalmic Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection) The following adverse reactions may be associated with corticosteroid therapy: Allergic reactions: Anaphylaxis including death, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, lupus erythematosus-like lesions, purpura, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration [see WARNINGS: Neurologic ]), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, post injection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychiatric disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration. Spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke (including brainstem) have been reported after epidural administration of corticosteroids (see WARNINGS: Neurologic ). Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS (listed alphabetically under each subsection) The following adverse reactions may be associated with corticosteroid therapy: Allergic reactions: Anaphylaxis including death, angioedema. Cardiovascular: Bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, circulatory collapse, congestive heart failure, fat embolism, hypertension, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in premature infants, myocardial rupture following recent myocardial infarction (see WARNINGS ), pulmonary edema, syncope, tachycardia, thromboembolism, thrombophlebitis, vasculitis. Dermatologic: Acne, allergic dermatitis, cutaneous and subcutaneous atrophy, dry scaly skin, ecchymoses and petechiae, edema, erythema, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, impaired wound healing, increased sweating, lupus erythematosus-like lesions, purpura, rash, sterile abscess, striae, suppressed reactions to skin tests, thin fragile skin, thinning scalp hair, urticaria. Endocrine: Decreased carbohydrate and glucose tolerance, development of cushingoid state, glycosuria, hirsutism, hypertrichosis, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetes, manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, menstrual irregularities, secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness (particularly in times of stress, as in trauma, surgery, or illness), suppression of growth in pediatric patients. Fluid and electrolyte disturbances: Congestive heart failure in susceptible patients, fluid retention, hypokalemic alkalosis, potassium loss, sodium retention. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal distention, bowel/bladder dysfunction (after intrathecal administration [see WARNINGS: Neurologic ]), elevation in serum liver enzyme levels (usually reversible upon discontinuation), hepatomegaly, increased appetite, nausea, pancreatitis, peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of the small and large intestine (particularly in patients with inflammatory bowel disease), ulcerative esophagitis. Metabolic: Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism. Musculoskeletal: Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intralesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, post injection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, vertebral compression fractures. Neurologic/Psychiatric: Convulsions, depression, emotional instability, euphoria, headache, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri) usually following discontinuation of treatment, insomnia, mood swings, neuritis, neuropathy, paresthesia, personality changes, psychiatric disorders, vertigo. Arachnoiditis, meningitis, paraparesis/paraplegia, and sensory disturbances have occurred after intrathecal administration. Spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke (including brainstem) have been reported after epidural administration of corticosteroids (see WARNINGS: Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration and WARNINGS: Neurologic ). Ophthalmic: Exophthalmos, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, posterior subcapsular cataracts, rare instances of blindness associated with periocular injections. Other: Abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, malaise, moon face, weight gain."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (ie, amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic enzyme inducers (eg, barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections: Vaccination )."$$
"Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections: Vaccination )."$$
