"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction or gastrointestinal obstructive disorders due to risk of urinary or gastric retention. (5.1, 5.3) -Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride. (5.2) -In patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules should be used only with careful monitoring. (5.4) -Central Nervous System Effects: Somnolence has been reported with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules affect them. (5.5) -Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/minute). (5.6) -Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules administration. (5.7) 5.1 Risk of Urinary Retention Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) ]. 5.2 Angioedema Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride. In one case, angioedema occurred after the first dose of trospium chloride. Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life threatening. If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, trospium chloride should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided. 5.3 Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) ]. Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules, like other antimuscarinic agents, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis, intestinal atony and myasthenia gravis. 5.4 Controlled Narrow-angle Glaucoma In patients being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma, Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules should only be used if the potential benefits outweigh the risks, and in that circumstance only with careful monitoring [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4)]. 5.5 Central Nervous System Effects Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules and Trospium Chloride Immediate-Release Tablets are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2) ]. A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including dizziness, confusion, hallucinations and somnolence. Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules affects them. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered. 5.6 Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/minute) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2), USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.6), and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 5.7 Alcohol Interaction Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules administration. In addition, patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction or gastrointestinal obstructive disorders due to risk of urinary or gastric retention. (5.1, 5.3) -Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride (5.2) -In patients with narrow angle glaucoma, Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules should be used only with careful monitoring. (5.4) -Central Nervous System Effects: Somnolence has been reported with Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules affect them. (5.5) -Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute). (5.6) -Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules administration. (5.7) 5.1 Risk of Urinary Retention Trospium chloride extended-release capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [see Contraindications (4 )]. 5.2 Angioedema Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride. In one case, angioedema occurred after the first dose of trospium chloride. Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life threatening. If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, trospium chloride should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided. 5.3 Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility Trospium chloride extended-release capsules should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention [see Contraindications (4)]. Trospium chloride extended-release capsules, like other antimuscarinic agents, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis, intestinal atony and myasthenia gravis. 5.4 Controlled Narrow-angle Glaucoma In patients being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma, trospium chloride extended-release capsules should only be used if the potential benefits outweigh the risks, and in that circumstance only with careful monitoring [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.5 Central Nervous System Effects Trospium chloride extended-release capsules and trospium chloride immediate release are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including dizziness, confusion, hallucinations and somnolence. Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how trospium chloride extended-release capsules affect them. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered. 5.6 Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Trospium chloride extended-release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute) [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Alcohol Interaction Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of trospium chloride extended-release capsules administration. In addition, patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction or gastrointestinal obstructive disorders due to risk of urinary or gastric retention. (5.1, 5.3) Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride (5.2) In patients with narrow angle glaucoma, Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules should be used only with careful monitoring. (5.4) Central Nervous System Effects: Somnolence has been reported with Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules affect them. (5.5) Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute). (5.6) Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules administration. (5.7) 5.1 Risk of Urinary Retention Trospium chloride extended-release capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. 5.2 Angioedema Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride. In one case, angioedema occurred after the first dose of trospium chloride. Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life threatening. If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, trospium chloride should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided. 5.3 Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility Trospium chloride extended-release capsules should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Trospium chloride extended-release capsules, like other antimuscarinic agents, may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis, intestinal atony and myasthenia gravis. 5.4 Controlled Narrow-angle Glaucoma In patients being treated for narrow-angle glaucoma, trospium chloride extended-release capsules should only be used if the potential benefits outweigh the risks, and in that circumstance only with careful monitoring [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 5.5 Central Nervous System Effects Trospium chloride extended-release capsules and trospium chloride immediate release are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system (CNS) effects [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including dizziness, confusion, hallucinations and somnolence. Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how trospium chloride extended-release capsules affect them. If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects, dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered. 5.6 Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Trospium chloride extended-release capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute) [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Alcohol Interaction Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of trospium chloride extended-release capsules administration. In addition, patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (>= 1%) with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules are dry mouth (10.7%) and constipation (8.5%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Perrigo at 1-866-634-9120 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The data described below reflect exposure to Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules in 578 patients for 12 weeks in two Phase 3 double-blind, placebo controlled trials (n = 1165). These studies included overactive bladder patients of ages 21 to 90 years, of which 86% were female and 85% were Caucasian. Patients received 60 mg daily doses of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules. Patients in these studies were eligible to continue treatment with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules 60 mg for up to one year. From both these controlled trials combined, 769 and 238 patients received treatment with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules for at least 24 and 52 weeks, respectively. There were 157 (27.2%) Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules patients and 98 (16.7%) placebo patients who experienced one or more double-blind treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) that were assessed by the investigator as at least possibly related to study medication. The most common TEAEs were dry mouth and constipation which, when reported, commonly occurred early in treatment (often within the first week). In the two Phase 3 studies, constipation, dry mouth, and urinary retention led to discontinuation in 1%, 0.7%, and 0.5% of patients treated with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules 60 mg daily, respectively. In the placebo group, there were no discontinuations due to dry mouth or urinary retention and one due to constipation. The incidence of serious adverse events was similar among patients receiving Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules and patients receiving placebo. No treatment-emergent serious adverse events in either treatment group were judged by the investigators as being possibly related to the study medication. Table 1 lists those treatment emergent adverse events from the trials that were assessed by the investigator as possibly related to study medication, reported in at least 1% of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules patients, and were more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules group than for placebo. Table 1: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 1% of patients judged by the investigator as at least possibly related to treatment and more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) Placebo Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules MedDRA Preferred term N=587 N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 62 (10.7) Constipation 9 (1.5) 49 (8.5) Dry eye 1 (0.2) 9 (1.6) Flatulence 3 (0.5) 9 (1.6) Nausea 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Abdominal pain 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Dyspepsia 4 (0.7) 7 (1.2) Urinary tract infection 5 (0.9) 7 (1.2) Constipation aggravated 3 (0.5) 7 (1.2) Abdominal distension 2 (0.3) 6 (1.0) Nasal dryness 0 (0.0) 6 (1.0) Additional adverse events reported in < 1% of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules treated patients and more common for Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules than placebo, judged by the investigator at least possibly related to treatment were: vision blurred, feces hard, back pain, somnolence, urinary retention, and dry skin. Table 2 lists all treatment-emergent adverse events for the trials reported in at least 2% of all Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules patients and more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules group than for placebo without regard to the investigator's judgment on drug relatedness. Table 2: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 2% of patients regardless of reported relationship to treatment and more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) Placebo Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules MedDRA Preferred term N=587 N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 64 (11.1) Constipation 10 (1.7) 52 (9.0) Urinary tract infection 29 (4.9) 42 (7.3) Nasopharyngitis 10 (1.7) 17 (2.9) Influenza 9 (1.5) 13 (2.2) Additional adverse events reported in < 2% of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules treated patients and twice as frequent for Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules compared to placebo, regardless of reported relationship to treatment were: tachycardia, dry eyes, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, constipation aggravated, nasal dryness, and rash. In the open-label treatment phase, the most common TEAEs reported in the 769 patients with at least 6 months exposure to Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules were: constipation, and dry mouth. Urinary tract infection and rash was also reported in several patients, including one of each judged by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment. Several adverse events were reported as severe in the open-label treatment phase, including one urinary tract infection, two urinary retention events, and one aggravated constipation. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of trospium chloride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal - gastritis; Cardiovascular - palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia, chest pain, syncope, "hypertensive crisis"; Immunological - Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema; Nervous System - dizziness, confusion, vision abnormal, hallucinations, somnolence, and delirium; Musculoskeletal - rhabdomyolysis; General - rash."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (greater than or equal to 1 %) with Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules are dry mouth (10.7%) and constipation (8.5%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The data described below reflect exposure to trospium chloride extended-release capsules in 578 patients for 12 weeks in two Phase 3 double-blind, placebo controlled trials (n=1165). These studies included overactive bladder patients of ages 21 to 90 years, of which 86% were female and 85% were Caucasian. Patients received 60 mg daily doses of trospium chloride extended-release capsules. Patients in these studies were eligible to continue treatment with trospium chloride extended-release capsules 60 mg for up to one year. From both these controlled trials combined, 769 and 238 patients received treatment with trospium chloride extended-release capsules for at least 24 and 52 weeks, respectively. There were 157 (27.2%) trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients and 98 (16.7%) placebo patients who experienced one or more double-blind treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) that were assessed by the investigator as at least possibly related to study medication. The most common TEAEs were dry mouth and constipation which, when reported, commonly occurred early in treatment (often within the first week). In the two Phase 3 studies, constipation, dry mouth, and urinary retention led to discontinuation in 1%, 0.7%, and 0.5% of patients treated with trospium chloride extended-release capsules 60 mg daily, respectively. In the placebo group, there were no discontinuations due to dry mouth or urinary retention and one due to constipation. The incidence of serious adverse events was similar among patients receiving trospium chloride extended-release capsules and patients receiving placebo. No treatment-emergent serious adverse events in either treatment group were judged by the investigators as being possibly related to the study medication. Table 1 lists those treatment-emergent adverse events from the trials that were assessed by the investigator as possibly related to study medication, reported in at least 1% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients, and were more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo. Table 1: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 1% of patients judged by the investigator as at least possibly related to treatment and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) MedDRA Preferred term Placebo N=587 Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 62 (10.7) Constipation 9 (1.5) 49 (8.5) Dry eye 1 (0.2) 9 (1.6) Flatulence 3 (0.5) 9 (1.6) Nausea 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Abdominal pain 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Dyspepsia 4 (0.7) 7 (1.2) Urinary tract infection 5 (0.9) 7 (1.2) Constipation aggravated 3 (0.5) 7 (1.2) Abdominal distension 2 (0.3) 6 (1.0) Nasal dryness 0 (0.0) 6 (1.0) Additional adverse events reported in less than 1% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules treated patients and more common for trospium chloride extended-release capsules than placebo, judged by the investigator at least possibly related to treatment were: vision blurred, feces hard, back pain, somnolence, urinary retention and dry skin. Table 2 lists all treatment-emergent adverse events for the trials reported in at least 2% of all trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo without regard to the investigator's judgment on drug relatedness. Table 2: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 2% of patients regardless of reported relationship to treatment and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) MedDRA Preferred term Placebo N=587 Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 64 (11.1) Constipation 10 (1.7) 52 (9.0) Urinary tract infection 29 (4.9) 42 (7.3) Nasopharyngitis 10 (1.7) 17 (2.9) Influenza 9 (1.5) 13 (2.2) Additional adverse events reported in less than 2% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules treated patients and twice as frequent for trospium chloride extended-release capsules compared to placebo, regardless of reported relationship to treatment were: tachycardia, dry eyes, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, constipation aggravated, nasal dryness, and rash. In the open-label treatment phase, the most common TEAEs reported in the 769 patients with at least 6 months exposure to trospium chloride extended-release capsules were: constipation, and dry mouth. Urinary tract infection and rash was also reported in several patients, including one of each judged by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment. Several adverse events were reported as severe in the open-label treatment phase, including one urinary tract infection, two urinary retention events, and one aggravated constipation. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of trospium chloride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal - gastritis; Cardiovascular - palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia, chest pain, syncope, "hypertensive crisis"; Immunological - Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema; Nervous System - dizziness, confusion, vision abnormal, hallucinations, somnolence and delirium; Musculoskeletal - rhabdomyolysis; General - rash."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (greater than or equal to 1 %) with Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules are dry mouth (10.7%) and constipation (8.5%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The data described below reflect exposure to trospium chloride extended-release capsules in 578 patients for 12 weeks in two Phase 3 double-blind, placebo controlled trials (n=1165). These studies included overactive bladder patients of ages 21 to 90 years, of which 86% were female and 85% were Caucasian. Patients received 60 mg daily doses of trospium chloride extended-release capsules. Patients in these studies were eligible to continue treatment with trospium chloride extended-release capsules 60 mg for up to one year. From both these controlled trials combined, 769 and 238 patients received treatment with trospium chloride extended-release capsules for at least 24 and 52 weeks, respectively. There were 157 (27.2%) trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients and 98 (16.7%) placebo patients who experienced one or more double-blind treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) that were assessed by the investigator as at least possibly related to study medication. The most common TEAEs were dry mouth and constipation which, when reported, commonly occurred early in treatment (often within the first week). In the two Phase 3 studies, constipation, dry mouth, and urinary retention led to discontinuation in 1%, 0.7%, and 0.5% of patients treated with trospium chloride extended-release capsules 60 mg daily, respectively. In the placebo group, there were no discontinuations due to dry mouth or urinary retention and one due to constipation. The incidence of serious adverse events was similar among patients receiving trospium chloride extended-release capsules and patients receiving placebo. No treatment-emergent serious adverse events in either treatment group were judged by the investigators as being possibly related to the study medication. Table 1 lists those treatment-emergent adverse events from the trials that were assessed by the investigator as possibly related to study medication, reported in at least 1% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients, and were more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo. Table 1: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 1% of patients judged by the investigator as at least possibly related to treatment and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) MedDRA Preferred term Placebo N=587 Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 62 (10.7) Constipation 9 (1.5) 49 (8.5) Dry eye 1 (0.2) 9 (1.6) Flatulence 3 (0.5) 9 (1.6) Nausea 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Abdominal pain 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Dyspepsia 4 (0.7) 7 (1.2) Urinary tract infection 5 (0.9) 7 (1.2) Constipation aggravated 3 (0.5) 7 (1.2) Abdominal distension 2 (0.3) 6 (1.0) Nasal dryness 0 (0.0) 6 (1.0) Additional adverse events reported in less than 1% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules treated patients and more common for trospium chloride extended-release capsules than placebo, judged by the investigator at least possibly related to treatment were: vision blurred, feces hard, back pain, somnolence, urinary retention, and dry skin. Table 2 lists all treatment-emergent adverse events for the trials reported in at least 2% of all trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo without regard to the investigator's judgment on drug relatedness. Table 2: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 2% of patients regardless of reported relationship to treatment and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) MedDRA Preferred term Placebo N=587 Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 64 (11.1) Constipation 10 (1.7) 52 (9.0) Urinary tract infection 29 (4.9) 42 (7.3) Nasopharyngitis 10 (1.7) 17 (2.9) Influenza 9 (1.5) 13 (2.2) Additional adverse events reported in less than 2% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules treated patients and twice as frequent for trospium chloride extended-release capsules compared to placebo, regardless of reported relationship to treatment were: tachycardia, dry eyes, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, constipation aggravated, nasal dryness, and rash. In the open-label treatment phase, the most common TEAEs reported in the 769 patients with at least 6 months exposure to trospium chloride extended-release capsules were: constipation, and dry mouth. Urinary tract infection and rash was also reported in several patients, including one of each judged by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment. Several adverse events were reported as severe in the open-label treatment phase, including one urinary tract infection, two urinary retention events, and one aggravated constipation. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of trospium chloride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal - gastritis; Cardiovascular - palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia, chest pain, syncope, "hypertensive crisis"; Immunological - Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema; Nervous System - dizziness, confusion, vision abnormal, hallucinations, somnolence, and delirium; Musculoskeletal - rhabdomyolysis; General - rash."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (greater than or equal to 1 %) with Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules are dry mouth (10.7%) and constipation (8.5%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Watson Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The data described below reflect exposure to trospium chloride extended-release capsules in 578 patients for 12 weeks in two Phase 3 double-blind, placebo controlled trials (n=1165). These studies included overactive bladder patients of ages 21 to 90 years, of which 86% were female and 85% were Caucasian. Patients received 60 mg daily doses of trospium chloride extended-release capsules. Patients in these studies were eligible to continue treatment with trospium chloride extended-release capsules 60 mg for up to one year. From both these controlled trials combined, 769 and 238 patients received treatment with trospium chloride extended-release capsules for at least 24 and 52 weeks, respectively. There were 157 (27.2%) trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients and 98 (16.7%) placebo patients who experienced one or more double-blind treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) that were assessed by the investigator as at least possibly related to study medication. The most common TEAEs were dry mouth and constipation which, when reported, commonly occurred early in treatment (often within the first week). In the two Phase 3 studies, constipation, dry mouth, and urinary retention led to discontinuation in 1%, 0.7%, and 0.5% of patients treated with trospium chloride extended-release capsules 60 mg daily, respectively. In the placebo group, there were no discontinuations due to dry mouth or urinary retention and one due to constipation. The incidence of serious adverse events was similar among patients receiving trospium chloride extended-release capsules and patients receiving placebo. No treatment-emergent serious adverse events in either treatment group were judged by the investigators as being possibly related to the study medication. Table 1 lists those treatment-emergent adverse events from the trials that were assessed by the investigator as possibly related to study medication, reported in at least 1% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients, and were more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo. Table 1: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 1% of patients judged by the investigator as at least possibly related to treatment and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) MedDRA Preferred term Placebo N=587 Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 62 (10.7) Constipation 9 (1.5) 49 (8.5) Dry eye 1 (0.2) 9 (1.6) Flatulence 3 (0.5) 9 (1.6) Nausea 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Abdominal pain 2 (0.3) 8 (1.4) Dyspepsia 4 (0.7) 7 (1.2) Urinary tract infection 5 (0.9) 7 (1.2) Constipation aggravated 3 (0.5) 7 (1.2) Abdominal distension 2 (0.3) 6 (1.0) Nasal dryness 0 (0.0) 6 (1.0) Additional adverse events reported in less than 1% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules treated patients and more common for trospium chloride extended-release capsules than placebo, judged by the investigator at least possibly related to treatment were: vision blurred, feces hard, back pain, somnolence, urinary retention and dry skin. Table 2 lists all treatment-emergent adverse events for the trials reported in at least 2% of all trospium chloride extended-release capsules patients and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo without regard to the investigator's judgment on drug relatedness. Table 2: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events reported in at least 2% of patients regardless of reported relationship to treatment and more common for the trospium chloride extended-release capsules group than for placebo Number of patients (%) MedDRA Preferred term Placebo N=587 Trospium Chloride Extended-release Capsules N=578 Dry mouth 22 (3.7) 64 (11.1) Constipation 10 (1.7) 52 (9.0) Urinary tract infection 29 (4.9) 42 (7.3) Nasopharyngitis 10 (1.7) 17 (2.9) Influenza 9 (1.5) 13 (2.2) Additional adverse events reported in less than 2% of trospium chloride extended-release capsules treated patients and twice as frequent for trospium chloride extended-release capsules compared to placebo, regardless of reported relationship to treatment were: tachycardia, dry eyes, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, constipation aggravated, nasal dryness, and rash. In the open-label treatment phase, the most common TEAEs reported in the 769 patients with at least 6 months exposure to trospium chloride extended-release capsules were: constipation, and dry mouth. Urinary tract infection and rash was also reported in several patients, including one of each judged by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment. Several adverse events were reported as severe in the open-label treatment phase, including one urinary tract infection, two urinary retention events, and one aggravated constipation. 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of trospium chloride. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Gastrointestinal - gastritis; Cardiovascular - palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia, chest pain, syncope, "hypertensive crisis"; Immunological - Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema; Nervous System - dizziness, confusion, vision abnormal, hallucinations, somnolence and delirium; Musculoskeletal - rhabdomyolysis; General - rash."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Trospium is metabolized by ester hydrolysis and excreted by the kidneys through a combination of tubular secretion and glomerular filtration. Based on in vitro data, no clinically relevant metabolic drug-drug interactions are anticipated with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules. However, some drugs which are actively secreted by the kidney may interact with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules by competing for renal tubular secretion. The concomitant use of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules with other antimuscarinic agents that produce dry mouth and constipation and other anticholinergic effects may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility. -Some drugs which are actively secreted by the kidney may interact with Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules by competing for renal tubular secretion. (7) -Concomitant use with digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug. (7.1) - Exposure to trospium on average was comparable in the presence of and without antacid, however, some individuals demonstrated increases or decreases in trospium exposure in the presence of antacid. The clinical relevance of these findings is not known. (7.2) -Concomitant use with metformin immediate release tablets reduced exposure and peak concentration of trospium. (7.3) 7.1 Digoxin Concomitant use of trospium chloride 20 mg twice daily and digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ]. 7.2 Antacid While the systemic exposure of trospium on average was comparable with and without antacid containing aluminum hydroxide and magnesium carbonate, 5 out of 11 individuals in a drug interaction study demonstrated either an increase or decrease in trospium exposure, in presence of antacid. The clinical relevance of these findings is not known [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ]. 7.3 Metformin Co-administration of 500 mg metformin immediate-release tablets twice daily reduced the steady-state systemic exposure of trospium by approximately 29% for mean AUC0-24 and by 34% for mean Cmax. The effect of a decrease in trospium exposure on the efficacy of Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules is unknown. The steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without 60 mg Trospium Chloride Extended-Release Capsules once daily under fasted condition. The effect of metformin at higher doses on trospium PK is unknown [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Trospium is metabolized by ester hydrolysis and excreted by the kidneys through a combination of tubular secretion and glomerular filtration. Based on in vitro data, no clinically relevant metabolic drug-drug interactions are anticipated with trospium. However, some drugs which are actively secreted by the kidney may interact with trospium by competing for renal tubular secretion. The concomitant use of trospium chloride extended-release capsules with other antimuscarinic agents that produce dry mouth, constipation, and other anticholinergic effects may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Trospium chloride extended-release capsules may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility. Some drugs which are actively secreted by the kidney may interact with trospium by competing for renal tubular secretion. (7) Concomitant use with digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug. (7.1) Exposure to trospium on average was comparable in the presence of and without antacid, however, some individuals demonstrated increases or decreases in trospium exposure in the presence of antacid. The clinical relevance of these findings is not known. (7.2) Concomitant use with metformin immediate release tablets reduced exposure and peak concentration of trospium. (7.3) 7.1 Digoxin Concomitant use of trospium chloride 20 mg twice daily and digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Antacid While the systemic exposure of trospium on average was comparable with and without antacid containing aluminum hydroxide and magnesium carbonate, 5 out of 11 individuals in a drug interaction study demonstrated either an increase or decrease in trospium exposure, in presence of antacid. The clinical relevance of these findings is not known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Metformin Co-administration of 500 mg metformin immediate release tablets twice daily reduced the steady-state systemic exposure of trospium by approximately 29% for mean AUC0-24 and by 34% for mean Cmax. The effect of a decrease in trospium exposure on the efficacy of trospium chloride extended-release capsules is unknown. The steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without 60 mg trospium chloride extended-release capsules once daily under fasted condition. The effect of metformin at higher doses on trospium PK is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Trospium is metabolized by ester hydrolysis and excreted by the kidneys through a combination of tubular secretion and glomerular filtration. Based on in vitro data, no clinically relevant metabolic drug-drug interactions are anticipated with trospium. However, some drugs, which are actively secreted by the kidney may interact with trospium by competing for renal tubular secretion. The concomitant use of trospium chloride extended-release capsules with other antimuscarinic agents that produce dry mouth, constipation, and other anticholinergic effects may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Trospium chloride extended-release capsules may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility. -Some drugs, which are actively secreted by the kidney, may interact with trospium by competing for renal tubular secretion. (7) -Concomitant use with digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug. (7.1) -Exposure to trospium on average was comparable in the presence of and without antacid; however, some individuals demonstrated increases or decreases in trospium exposure in the presence of antacid. The clinical relevance of these findings is not known. (7.2) -Concomitant use with metformin immediate release tablets reduced exposure and peak concentration of trospium. (7.3) 7.1 Digoxin Concomitant use of trospium chloride 20 mg twice daily and digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Antacid While the systemic exposure of trospium on average was comparable with and without antacid containing aluminum hydroxide and magnesium carbonate, 5 out of 11 individuals in a drug interaction study demonstrated either an increase or decrease in trospium exposure, in presence of antacid. The clinical relevance of these findings is not known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Metformin Co-administration of 500 mg metformin immediate release tablets twice daily reduced the steady-state systemic exposure of trospium by approximately 29% for mean AUC0-24 and by 34% for mean Cmax. The effect of a decrease in trospium exposure on the efficacy of trospium chloride extended-release capsules is unknown. The steady-state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without 60 mg trospium chloride extended-release capsules once daily under fasted condition. The effect of metformin at higher doses on trospium PK is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."$$
