"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Risk of Aluminum Toxicity: For at risk patients (renal failure or those with prolonged therapy), consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels (5.1) - Allergic Reactions: to thiamine may occur (5.2) - Hypervitaminosis A: Patients with renal failure or liver disease may be at higher risk (5.3) - Vitamin K Antagonizes Warfarin's Anticoagulant Action: Monitor INR (5.4, 7.2) - Interferes with Megaloblastic Anemia Diagnosis: Avoid during testing for this disorder (5.5) - Risk of Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses: Monitor blood vitamin concentrations (5.6) - False Negative Urine Glucose Tests: due to vitamin C (5.7) - Risk of Vitamin E Toxicity: Additional oral and parenteral vitamin E may result in elevated vitamin E blood concentrations in infants (5.8) - Low Vitamin A Levels: Monitor vitamin A levels (5.9) - Risk of E- Ferol Syndrome: due to polysorbates (5.10) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in pediatric patients with renal impairment. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution, which contain aluminum. Patients with renal impairment, including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. Consider periodic monitoring of aluminum levels with prolonged parenteral administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. 5.2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. There have been rare reports of anaphylaxis following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylaxis associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported. 5.3. Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease. Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A, an ingredient found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, should be undertaken with caution [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 )]. Blood levels of Vitamin A should be monitored periodically. 5.4 Vitamin K Antagonizes the Anticoagulant Action of Warfarin Vitamin K, which is found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin.In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.5 Interferes with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia Avoid the use of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC in patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.6 Potential to Develop Vitamin Deficiencies or Excesses In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, blood concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if vitamin deficiencies or excesses are developing. INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. 5.7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations. 5.8 Vitamin E Overdose in Infants Receiving Additional Vitamin E Avoid additional oral or parental doses of vitamin E in infants. Daily dose of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC contains adequate concentrations of vitamin E required to achieve normal blood levels of vitamin E. Therefore, additional vitamin E supplementations of patients receiving INFUVITE PEDIATRIC may result in elevated blood concentrations of vitamin E and potential vitamin E toxicity in infants. 5.9 Risk of Low Vitamin A Levels Vitamin A may adhere to plastic, resulting in lower vitamin A concentrations after administration of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. Therefore, blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored and the administration of additional therapeutic doses of vitamin A may be required, especially in low-birth weight infants. 5.10 Risk of E-Ferol Syndrome in Low-Birth Weight Infants E-Ferol syndrome manifested by thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction, hepatomegaly, cholestasis, ascites, hypotension and metabolic acidosis has been reported in low-birth weight infants following administration of polysorbates which are found in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. No E-Ferol syndrome associated with INFUVITE PEDIATRIC has been reported."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -This product contains aluminum that may be toxic (5.1) -Allergic reactions to thiamine may occur (5.2) -Hypervitaminosis A has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease (5.3) -Vitamin K antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin (5.4) -Interference with the diagnosis of megaloblastic anemia (5.5) -Blood vitamin concentrations should be periodically monitored to determine if deficiencies or excesses are developing (5.6) -Interference with urine glucose testing (5.7) -Incompatibility with intravenous fat emulsions (5.8) 5.1 Aluminum Toxicity INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solution, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. 5.2 Allergic Reactions to Thiamine Allergic reactions such as urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema have been reported following intravenous administration of thiamine, which is found in INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE). There have been rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous doses of thiamine. No fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) have been reported. 5.3. Hypervitaminosis A Hypervitaminosis A, manifested by nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, blurred vision has been reported in patients with renal failure receiving 1.5 mg/day retinol and in patients with liver disease, Therefore, supplementation of renal failure patients and patients with liver disease with vitamin A, an ingredient found in INFUVITE ADULT, should be undertaken with caution [See Use in Specific Populations (8.5 and 8.6)]. 5.4 Vitamin K Antagonizes the Anticoagulant Action of Warfarin Vitamin K, which is found in INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin.In patients who are on warfarin anticoagulant therapy receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. 5.5 Interferes with Diagnosis of Megaloblastic Anemia Do not administer INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) to patients with suspected or diagnosed megaloblastic anemia prior to blood sampling for the detection of the folic acid and cyanocobalamin deficiencies. The folic acid and the cyanocobalamin in the INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) solution can mask serum deficits of folic acid and cyanocobalamin in these patients. 5.6 Monitor Blood Vitamin Concentrations to Determine if Deficiencies or Excesses are Developing In patients receiving parenteral multivitamins such as with INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE), blood concentration should be periodically monitored to determine if deficiencies or excesses are developing. INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) may not correct long-standing specific vitamin deficiencies. The administration of additional therapeutic doses of specific vitamins may be required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. 5.7 Interference with Urine Glucose Testing INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) contains vitamin C which is also known as ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid in the urine may cause false negative urine glucose determinations. 5.8 Incompatibility with Intravenous Fat Emulsions Do not add INFUVITE ADULT (PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE) directly to intravenous fat emulsions."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other section of the labeling. -Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions following intravenous administration of thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Other adverse reactions: Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia There have been reports of the following types of reactions: -Allergic - anaphylactoid reactions following large intravenous doses of thiamine, urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema (6) -Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis (6) -CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety (6) -Ophthalmic: diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling. -Allergic reactions to thiamine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. -Hypervitaminosis A [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of the vitamins in INFUVITE PEDIATRIC. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Dermatologic: rash, erythema, pruritis CNS: headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic: diplopia Adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis, rash, erythema, pruritis, headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety, diplopia (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Sandoz Inc. at 1-800-525-8747 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. The following are examples of these types of interactions: A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these interactions: Physical Incompatibilities: -Acetazolamide (2.4) -Intravenous chlorothiazide sodium (2.4) -Aminophylline (2.4) -Ampicillin (2.4) -Moderately alkaline solutions (2.4) -Tetracycline HCl (2.4) -Calcium salts such as calcium gluconate (2.4) -Vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite (2.4) Clinical interactions affecting levels of co-administered drugs -Antibiotics - Activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin decreases by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid and riboflavin also reduces the activity of bleomycin (7.1) -Levodopa exposure may decrease by pyridoxine. Levodopa efficacy may decline (7.1) -Phenytoin exposure may decrease by folic acid increasing the risk of seizure activity (7.1) Clinical interactions affecting vitamin levels -Chloramphenicol may inhibit hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy in pernicious anemia patients (7.2) -Phenytoin may decrease folic acid concentrations; therefore, coadministration should be avoided in pregnancy (7.2) 7.1 Clinical Interactions Affecting Levels of Co-administered Drugs Folic Acid Phenytoin metabolism may be increased by folic acid. Folic acid may lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Patient's response to methotrexate therapy may be decreased by folic acid. Pyridoxine The metabolism of levodopa may be increased and its efficacy may be decreased by pyridoxine. Antibiotics Antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin is decreased by thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. 7.2 Clinical Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid Pyridoxine requirements may be increased by concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid. Chloramphenicol In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Phenytoin Serum folic acid concentrations may be decreased by phenytoin and, therefore it should be avoided in pregnancy."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions Affecting Co-administered Drugs: - Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin (7.1) - Bleomycin : Ascorbic acid and riboflavin may reduce the activity of bleomycin (7.1) - Levodopa: Pyridoxine may decrease blood levels of levodopa and levodopa efficacy may decrease (7.1) - Phenytoin: Folic acid may decrease phenytoin blood levels and increase risk of seizure activity (7.1) - Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease response to methotrexate (7.1) Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels: - Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements (7.2). - Phenytoin: May decrease folic acid concentrations (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions Affecting Co-administered Drugs A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported. The following are examples of these types of interactions: Warfarin: Vitamin K, a component of INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, antagonizes the anticoagulant action of warfarin. In patients who are co-administered warfarin and INFUVITE PEDIATRIC, blood levels of prothrombin/INR should be periodically monitored to determine if dose of warfarin needs to be adjusted. Antibiotics: Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid decrease antibiotic activities of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin: Ascorbic acid and riboflavin inactivate bleomycin in vitro, thus the activity of bleomycin may be reduced. Levodopa: Pyridoxine may increase the metabolism of levodopa (decrease blood levels of levodopa) and decrease its efficacy. Phenytoin: Folic acid may increase phenytoin metabolism and lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Methotrexate: Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate therapy. 7.2 Drug Interactions Affecting Vitamin Levels Hydralazine, Isoniazid: Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. Phenytoin: Phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in SELECT-OB(R)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in SELECT-OB(R) Chewable Caplets. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R) Fe+. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-OB. Allergic reactions have been reported with some forms of Gum Acacia to include respiratory problems and skin lesions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-OB+DHA. Allergic reactions have been reported with some forms of gum acacia to include respiratory problems and skin lesions."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol(R)-Plus. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose. Reported adverse events include skin ailments, gastrointestinal complaints, glucose abnormalities, and visual problems."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in BACMIN. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) FORTE. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) ONE."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, dark stools and abdominal pain. Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient. Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-1800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact GM Pharmaceuticals at 1-888-535-0305."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Caution should be exercised with patients with known allergies to fish or fish by-products. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report suspected side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact PureTek Corporation, at 1-877-921-7873."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events. To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information, contact Solubiomix, LLC, at 1-844-551-9911."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. You should call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report a serious adverse event, call 1-855-899-4237."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following oral, enteral and parenteral administration of folic acid."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Folic Acid: Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Ferrous Fumarate: Gastrointestinal disturbances (anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation) occur occasionally, but are usually mild and may subside with continuation of therapy. Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals, giving Concept OBTM after meals may control occasional G.I. disturbances. Concept OBTM is best absorbed when taken at bedtime."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Folic Acid: Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Ferrous Fumarate: Gastrointestinal disturbances (anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation) occur occasionally, but are usually mild and may subside with continuation of therapy. Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals, giving Integra PlusTM after meals may control occasional G.I. disturbances. Integra PlusTM is best absorbed when taken at bedtime."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Folic Acid: Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Ferrous Fumarate: Gastrointestinal disturbances (anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation) occur occasionally, but are usually mild and may subside with continuation of therapy. Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals, giving Tandem OBTM after meals may control occasional G.I. disturbances. Tandem OBTM is best absorbed when taken at bedtime."$$
"Adverse Reactions: Folic Acid: Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Ferrous Fumarate: Gastrointestinal disturbances (anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation) occur occasionally, but are usually mild and may subside with continuation of therapy. Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals, giving Tandem(R) DHA after meals may control occasional G.I. disturbances. Tandem(R) DHA is best absorbed when taken at bedtime."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In some cases, allergic hypersensitivity has been reported following administration of folic acid. Mild gastrointestinal disturbances may occur with products containing ferrous fumarate (iron), but usually subside with continuation of therapy."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See OVERDOSAGE section. Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported using the intravenous route. Allergic reactions have been reported rarely with administration of AQUASOL ATM Parenteral including one case of an anaphylactoid type reaction."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration. Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported after large intravenous doses of thiamine. The risk, however, is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins of the B group. There have been no reports of fatal anaphylactoid reactions associated with multivitamin preparations for infusion. There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: Dermatologic - rash, erythema, pruritis CNS - headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic - diplopia Allergic - urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema."$$
"Adverse Reactions There have been rare reports of anaphylactic reactions following parenteral multivitamin administration. Rare reports of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported following large intravenous doses of thiamine. However, the risk is negligible if thiamine is coadministered with other vitamins of the B group. There have been rare reports of the following types of reactions: Dermatologic - rash, erythema, pruritis CNS - headache, dizziness, agitation, anxiety Ophthalmic - diplopia Allergic - urticaria, shortness of breath, wheezing and angioedema."$$
"Drug and Treatment Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficiency of levodopa in the treatment of parkinsonism. Therefore, BACMIN is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy."$$
"Drug-Drug Interactions Physical incompatibilities INFUVITE Pediatric (Multiple Vitamins for Infusion) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide, and chlorothiazide sodium, aminopylline or sodium bicarbonate. INFUVITE Pediatric is not physically compatible with ampicillin and it may not be physically compatible with tetracycline HCl. It has also been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate. Direct addition to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended. Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided. Some of the vitamins in INFUVITE Pediatric may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite; if bisulfite solutions are necessary, patients should be monitored for Vitamin A, thiamine, and ascorbic acid deficiencies."$$
"Drug - Drug/Solution Interactions: Caution should be exercised when administering INFUVITE ADULT to patients on warfarin sodium-type anticoagulant therapy. In such patients, vitamin K may antagonize the hypoprothrombinemic response to anticoagulant drugs, such as warfarin and its congeners. Therefore, periodic monitoring of prothrombin/INR response is essential in determining the appropriate dosage of anticoagulant therapy. INFUVITE ADULT (Multiple Vitamins for Infusion) is not physically compatible with alkaline solutions or moderately alkaline drugs such as acetazolamide, chlorothiazide sodium, aminophylline or sodium bicarbonate. Tetracycline HCl and ampicillin may not be physically compatible with INFUVITE ADULT . Also, it has been reported that folic acid is unstable in the presence of calcium salts such as calcium gluconate. Direct addition to intravenous fat emulsions is not recommended. Consult appropriate references for listings of physical compatibility of solutions and drugs with the vitamin infusion. In such circumstances, admixture or Y-site administration with vitamin solutions should be avoided. A number of interactions between vitamins and drugs have been reported which may affect the metabolism of either agent. The following are examples of these types of interactions. Folic acid may lower the serum concentration of phenytoin resulting in increased seizure activity. Conversely, phenytoin may decrease serum folic acid concentrations and, therefore, should be avoided in pregnancy. Folic acid may decrease the patient's response to methotrexate therapy. Pyridoxine may decrease the efficacy of levodopa by increasing its metabolism. Concomitant administration of hydralazine or isoniazid may increase pyridoxine requirements. In patients with pernicious anemia, the hematologic response to vitamin B12 therapy may be inhibited by concomitant administration of chloramphenicol. Several vitamins have been reported to decrease the activity of certain antibiotics. Thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacinamide, and ascorbic acid have been reported to decrease the antibiotic activity of erythromycin, kanamycin, streptomycin, doxycycline, and lincomycin. Bleomycin is inactivated in vitro by ascorbic acid and riboflavin. Vitamin K may antagonize the hypoprothrombinemic effect of oral anticoagulants (see bolded statement above). Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. Some of the vitamins in INFUVITE ADULT may react with vitamin K bisulfite or sodium bisulfite; if bisulfite solutions are necessary, patients should be monitored for vitamin A and thiamine deficiencies."$$
"Drug Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficacy of levodopa in the treatment of Parkinsonism. Therefore, STROVITE(R) FORTE is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatibility of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbitol, and valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Medications for an overactive thyroid (anti-thyroid drugs) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism. Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium levels in blood. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions."$$
"KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN Store product at room temperature. Do not expose to excessive heat or moisture. Not for use by individuals under th eage of 18 years. Do not use if you are pregnant or nursing."$$
"Precautions Folic Acid may partially correct the hematological damage due to vitamin B12 deficiency of pernicious anemia, while the associated neurological damage progresses."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. WARNING: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. PRECAUTIONS: General: Folic acid in doses above 0.1 mg - 0.4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. WARNING: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. PRECAUTIONS: General: Folic acid in doses above 0.1 mg - 0.4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. Pediatric Use: Safety and effectiveness of this product have not been established in pediatric patients. Geriatric Use: No clinical studies have been performed in patients age 65 and over to determine whether older persons respond differently from younger persons. Dosage should always begin at the low end of the dosage scale and should consider that elderly persons may have decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and or concomitant diseases."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. WARNING: Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids from fish oils per day may have potential antithrombotic effects, including an increased bleeding time and INR (international normalized ratio). DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants. WARNING: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. PRECAUTIONS: General: Folic acid in doses above 0.1 mg - 0.4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is the leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under six. Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. PRECAUTIONS: General: Folic acid in doses above 0.1 mg - 0.4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive."$$
"WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is the leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under six. Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. WARNING: Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids from fish oils per day may have potential antithrombotic effects, including an increased bleeding time and INR (international normalized ratio). DHA should be avoided in patients with inherited or acquired bleeding diatheses, including those taking anticoagulants. \\342\\220\\243\\342\\220\\243 WARNING: Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient. \\342\\220\\243\\342\\220\\243 PRECAUTIONS: General: Folic acid in doses above 0.1 mg -0.4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Tell your doctor if you have: kidney problems, thyroid disease. This medication should be used as directed during pregnancy or while breast-feeding. Consult your doctor about the risks and benefits. Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient. Folic acid in doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Tell your doctor if you have: kidney problems, thyroid disease. This medication should be used as directed during pregnancy or while breast-feeding. Consult your doctor about the risks and benefits. Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient. Folic acid in doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS: WARNING: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or poison control center immediately. Folic acid is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. While prescribing this product for pregnant women, nursing mothers, or for women prior to conception, their medical condition and use of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN."$$
"WARNINGS/PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues. Bone pain, high blood pressure, formation of kidney stones, renal failure, and increased risk of heart disease can occur. Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease. Folic acid, especially in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency. Avoid overdosage. Keep out of the reach of children. Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs; carbamazepine, fosphenytoin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproic acid. Folic acid may decrease a patient's response to methotrexate. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions, including use of all medications, vitamins and supplements, pregnancy, and breast-feeding."$$
"WARNINGS/PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues. Bone pain, high blood pressure, formation of kidney stones, renal failure, and increased risk of heart disease can occur. Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease. Folic acid, especially in doses above 0.1 mg daily, may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency. Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding. Supplemental intake of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended. Avoid overdosage. Keep out of the reach of children. Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions. Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions, including use of all medications, vitamins and supplements, pregnancy, and breast-feeding. Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use."$$
