https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Idarucizumab+AND+for+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "IDARUCIZUMAB"
        "brand_name": [
          "Praxbind"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described in more detail elsewhere in the labeling: Thromboembolic Risk [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Risks of Serious Adverse Reactions in Patients with Hereditary Fructose Intolerance due to Sorbitol Excipient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] In healthy volunteers, the most frequently reported adverse reactions in greater than or equal to 5% of subjects treated with idarucizumab was headache. (6.1) In patients, the most frequently reported adverse reactions in greater than or equal to 5% of patients treated with idarucizumab were hypokalemia, delirium, constipation, pyrexia, and pneumonia. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at (800) 542-6257 or (800) 459-9906 TTY or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Three clinical trials in healthy volunteers have been completed, in which 224 subjects were treated with idarucizumab. In these trials during the treatment period the overall frequency of adverse events was similar between idarucizumab-treated subjects (55/224, 25%) and placebo-treated subjects (26/105, 25%). Among those subjects treated with idarucizumab, adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 5% of subjects was headache (12/224, 5%). In the interim analysis of the RE-VERSE AD(TM) (RE-VERSal Effects of idarucizumab on Active Dabigatran) trial, a total of 123 dabigatran-treated patients were administered idarucizumab either because they required an emergency surgery or urgent procedure, or because they presented with life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 5% of patients were: hypokalemia (9/123, 7%), delirium (9/123, 7%), constipation (8/123, 7%), pyrexia (7/123, 6%), pneumonia (7/123, 6%). Of the total, 26 patients died, 11 within the first day after idarucizumab dosing; each of these deaths could be attributed either as a complication of the index event or associated with co-morbidities. Thromboembolic Events In the interim analysis of the RE-VERSE AD trial, 5 of 123 patients reported thrombotic events, 1 patient 2 days after treatment with idarucizumab and 4 patients 7 days or more after treatment with idarucizumab. None of these patients were on antithrombotic therapy at the time of the event, and in each of these cases, the thrombotic event could be attributed to the underlying medical condition of the patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Hypersensitivity Pyrexia, bronchospasm, hyperventilation, rash, and pruritus have been reported in clinical trials with idarucizumab [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 6.2 Immunogenicity As with all proteins there is a potential for immunogenicity with idarucizumab. Using an electro-chemiluminescence (ECL) based assay, plasma samples from 283 subjects (224 treated with idarucizumab) were tested for antibodies cross-reacting with idarucizumab. Pre-existing antibodies with cross-reactivity to idarucizumab were detected in approximately 13% (36/283) of the subjects. The majority of pre-existing antibodies were shown to have low titers. No impact on the pharmacokinetics or the reversal effect of idarucizumab or hypersensitivity reactions were observed in these subjects. Treatment-emergent possibly persisting anti-idarucizumab antibodies with low titers were observed in 4% (9/224) of the subjects treated with idarucizumab. The epitope specificity of antibodies to idarucizumab was characterized using probe molecules. For pre-existing antibodies, 97% (35/36) had specificity for the C-terminus, a region of idarucizumab to which dabigatran does not bind. For treatment emergent possibly persisting antibodies, 56% (5/9) had specificity for the C-terminus, 22% (2/9) had specificity for the variable region, 11% (1/9) had mixed specificity and 11% (1/9) was indeterminate. Detection of antibody formation is dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody positivity may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to idarucizumab with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thromboembolic Risk: Reversing dabigatran therapy exposes patients to the thrombotic risk of their underlying disease. Resume anticoagulant therapy as soon as medically appropriate. (2.4, 5.1) Re-elevation of Coagulation Parameters: In patients with elevated coagulation parameters and reappearance of clinically relevant bleeding or requiring a second emergency surgery/urgent procedure, an additional 5 g dose of PRAXBIND may be considered. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions: Discontinue administration and evaluate. (5.3) Risks of Serious Adverse Reactions in Patients with Hereditary Fructose Intolerance due to Sorbitol Excipient: Patients with hereditary fructose intolerance may be at risk of adverse reactions. (5.4) 5.1 Thromboembolic Risk Patients being treated with dabigatran therapy have underlying disease states that predispose them to thromboembolic events. Reversing dabigatran therapy exposes patients to the thrombotic risk of their underlying disease. To reduce this risk, resumption of anticoagulant therapy should be considered as soon as medically appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. 5.2 Re-elevation of Coagulation Parameters In a limited number of patients in the clinical program, between 12 and 24 hours after administration of 5 g idarucizumab, elevated coagulation parameters (e.g., activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) or ecarin clotting time (ECT)) have been observed [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. If reappearance of clinically relevant bleeding together with elevated coagulation parameters is observed after administration of 5 g PRAXBIND, administration of an additional 5 g dose of PRAXBIND may be considered. Similarly, patients who require a second emergency surgery/urgent procedure and have elevated coagulation parameters may receive an additional 5 g dose of PRAXBIND. The safety and effectiveness of repeat treatment with PRAXBIND have not been established [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions There is insufficient clinical experience with PRAXBIND in patients to evaluate risk of hypersensitivity to idarucizumab. In clinical studies adverse events possibly indicative of hypersensitivity reactions where a possible relationship could not be excluded were reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The risk of using PRAXBIND in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactoid reaction) to idarucizumab or to any of the excipients needs to be weighed cautiously against the potential benefit of such an emergency treatment. If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, immediately discontinue administration of PRAXBIND and institute appropriate treatment. 5.4 Risks of Serious Adverse Reactions in Patients with Hereditary Fructose Intolerance due to Sorbitol Excipient In patients with the condition of hereditary fructose intolerance who have received parenteral administration of sorbitol, serious adverse reactions, including fatal reactions, have been reported. Reactions have included hypoglycemia, hypophosphatemia, metabolic acidosis, increase in uric acid, acute liver failure with breakdown of excretory and synthetic function. The recommended dose of PRAXBIND contains 4 g sorbitol as an excipient. When prescribing PRAXBIND to patients with hereditary fructose intolerance consider the combined daily metabolic load of sorbitol/fructose from all sources, including PRAXBIND and other drugs containing sorbitol. The minimum amount of sorbitol at which serious adverse reactions may occur in these patients is not known."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
