https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Obinutuzumab+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "OBINUTUZUMAB"
        "brand_name": [
          "Gazyva"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with GAZYVA."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label: Hepatitis B reactivation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Infusion reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Tumor lysis syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Neutropenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Thrombocytopenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 10%) were: CLL: infusion reactions, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, pyrexia, cough, nausea, and diarrhea. (6) Indolent NHL: infusion reactions, neutropenia, nausea, fatigue, cough, diarrhea, constipation, pyrexia, thrombocytopenia, vomiting, upper respiratory tract infection, decreased appetite, arthralgia, sinusitis, anemia, asthenia and urinary tract infection. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Genentech at 1-888-835-2555 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Summary of Clinical Trial Experience in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia The data described in Tables 4-5 below are based on a safety population of 773 previously untreated patients with CLL. Patients were treated with chlorambucil alone, GAZYVA in combination with chlorambucil, or rituximab in combination with chlorambucil. The Stage 1 analysis compared GAZYVA in combination with chlorambucil vs. chlorambucil alone, and Stage 2 compared GAZYVA in combination with chlorambucil vs. rituximab in combination with chlorambucil. Adverse reactions rates and laboratory abnormalities from the Stage 2 phase are presented below and are consistent with the rates in Stage 1. In addition to the adverse reactions observed in Stage 2, in Stage 1 back pain (5% vs. 2%), anemia (12% vs. 10%) and cough (10% vs. 7%) were observed at a higher incidence in the obinutuzumab treated patients. The incidence of Grade 3-4 back pain (<1% vs. 0%), cough (0% vs. <1%) and anemia (5% vs. 4%) was similar in both treatment arms. With regard to laboratory abnormalities, in Stage 1 hyperkalemia (33% vs. 18%), creatinine increased (30% vs. 20%) and alkaline phosphatase increased (18% vs. 11%) were observed at a higher incidence in patients treated with obinutuzumab with similar incidences of Grade 3-4 abnormalities between the two arms. Patients received three 1000 mg doses of GAZYVA on the first cycle and a single dose of 1000 mg once every 28 days for 5 additional cycles in combination with chlorambucil (6 cycles of 28 days each in total). In the last 140 patients enrolled, the first dose of GAZYVA was split between day 1 (100 mg) and day 2 (900 mg) [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. In total, 81% of patients received all 6 cycles (of 28 days each) of GAZYVA-based therapy. The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 10%) observed in patients with CLL in the GAZYVA containing arm were infusion reactions, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, pyrexia, cough, nausea, and diarrhea. The most common Grade 3-4 adverse reactions (incidence >= 10%) observed in patients with CLL in the GAZYVA containing arm were neutropenia, infusion reactions, and thrombocytopenia. Table 4 Summary of Adverse Reactions Reported in >= 5% of Patients with CLL and at Least 2% Greater in the GAZYVA Treated Arm (Stage 2) Adverse Reactions System Organ Class GAZYVA + Chlorambucil n = 336 Rituximab + Chlorambucil n = 321 All Grades % Grades 3-4 % All Grades % Grades 3-4 % Injury, poisoning and procedural complications Infusion reactions 66 20 38 4 Blood and lymphatic system disordersAdverse reactions reported under \"Blood and lymphatic system disorders\" reflect those reported by investigator as clinically significant. Neutropenia 38 33 32 28 Thrombocytopenia 14 10 7 3 Leukopenia 6 4 2 < 1 General disorders and administration site conditions Pyrexia 9 < 1 7 < 1 Gastrointestinal disorders Diarrhea 10 2 8 < 1 Constipation 8 0 5 0 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 6 < 1 3 0 Urinary tract infection 5 1 2 < 1 Table 5 Post-Baseline Laboratory Abnormalities by CTCAE Grade in >= 5% of Patients with CLL and at Least 2% Greater in the GAZYVA Treated Arm (Stage 2) Laboratory Abnormalities GAZYVA + Chlorambucil n = 336 Rituximab + Chlorambucil n = 321 All Grades % Grades 3-4 % All Grades % Grades 3-4 % Hematology Neutropenia 76 46 69 41 Lymphopenia 80 39 50 16 Leukopenia 84 35 62 16 Thrombocytopenia 48 13 40 8 Anemia 39 10 37 10 Chemistry Hypocalcemia 37 3 32 <1 Hypokalemia 14 1 10 <1 Hyponatremia 26 7 18 2 AST/SGOT increased 27 2 21 <1 ALT/SGPT increased 28 2 21 1 Hypoalbuminemia 23 <1 16 <1 Summary of Clinical Trial Experience in Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma The safety of GAZYVA was evaluated based on a safety population of 392 patients with indolent NHL, of whom 81% had FL. In the population of patients with FL, the profile of adverse reactions was consistent with the overall indolent NHL population. Patients were treated with either GAZYVA in combination with bendamustine, followed by GAZYVA monotherapy in patients that have not progressed, or with bendamustine alone. Patients randomized to the GAZYVA + bendamustine arm received three weekly 1000 mg doses of GAZYVA in the first cycle and a single dose of 1000 mg once every 28 days for 5 additional cycles in combination with bendamustine 90 mg/m2 on Days 1 and 2 in all 6 cycles. Patient randomized to the bendamustine alone arm received 120 mg/m2 on Days 1 and 2. This regimen continued for 6 cycles of 28 days in duration. For patients who did not progress on GAZYVA in combination with bendamustine, a single dose of 1000 mg GAZYVA monotherapy was given every two months until progression or for a maximum of two years. During combination therapy with GAZYVA and bendamustine, 79% of patients received all 6 treatment cycles of GAZYVA and 76% received all 6 treatment cycles of bendamustine compared to 67% of patients in the bendamustine alone arm. The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 10%) observed in patients with iNHL in the GAZYVA containing arm were infusion reactions, neutropenia, nausea, fatigue, cough, diarrhea, constipation, pyrexia, thrombocytopenia, vomiting, upper respiratory tract infection, decreased appetite, arthralgia, sinusitis, anemia, asthenia and urinary tract infection. The most common Grade 3-4 adverse reactions (incidence >= 10%) observed in patients with iNHL in the GAZYVA containing arm were neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and infusion reactions. Table 6 Summary of Adverse Reactions Reported in >=5% of Patients with Indolent NHL and at Least 2% Greater in the GAZYVA plus Bendamustine Followed by GAZYVA Monotherapy Treated Arm Adverse Reactions System Organ Class GAZYVA + Bendamustine followed by GAZYVA monotherapy n = 194 Bendamustine n = 198 All Grades % Grades 3-4 % All Grades % Grades 3-4 % Injury, Poisoning and Procedural Complications Infusion related reactionsDefined as any related adverse reaction that occurred during or within 24 hours of infusion. 69 11 63 6 Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Neutropenia 35 33 28 26 Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation 19 0 16 0 Dyspepsia 5 0 3 0 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Pyrexia 18 1 14 0 Asthenia 11 1 8 0 Infections and Infestations Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 13 2 8 1 Sinusitis 12 1 5 0 Urinary Tract Infection 10 3 6 0 Nasopharyngitis 9 0 4 0 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia 12 0 5 0 Pain in Extremity 9 1 4 0 Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 26 0 17 0 Nasal Congestion 7 0 2 0 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Pruritus 9 0 6 0 During the monotherapy period with GAZYVA, the most common adverse reactions in patients with iNHL were cough (15%), upper respiratory tract infections (12%), neutropenia (11%), sinusitis (10%), diarrhea (8%), infusion related reactions (8%), nausea (8%), fatigue (8%), bronchitis (7%), arthralgia (7%), pyrexia (6%), nasopharyngitis (6%), and urinary tract infections (6%). The most common Grade 3-4 adverse reactions during the monotherapy period were neutropenia (10%), and anemia, febrile neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, sepsis, upper respiratory tract infection, and urinary tract infection (all at 1%). Table 7 Post-Baseline Laboratory Abnormalities by CTCAE Grade in >= 5% of Patients with iNHL and at Least 2% Greater in the GAZYVA plus Bendamustine Followed by GAZYVA Monotherapy Treated ArmTwo percent different in either the All Grades or Grade 3-4 Lab Abnormalities. Laboratory Abnormalities GAZYVA + Bendamustine followed by GAZYVA monotherapy n = 194 Bendamustine n = 198 All Grades % Grades 3-4 % All Grades % Grades 3-4 % Hematology Neutropenia 75 52 77 42 Leukopenia 86 47 88 34 Lymphopenia 99 93 99 85 Chemistry Hypocalcemia 38 2 26 2 Hypophosphatemia 41 7 38 7 ALT/SGPT increased 35 1 31 4 Elevated creatinine 87 4 92 2 Creatinine Clearance (decreased) 58 6 61 4 In the monotherapy phase of treatment with GAZYVA, the most frequently reported hematological laboratory abnormalities were lymphopenia (80%), leukopenia (63%), low hemoglobin (50%) and neutropenia (46%). The most frequently reported hematological Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities during the monotherapy period were lymphopenia (52%), neutropenia (27%) and leukopenia (20%). In the monotherapy phase of treatment with GAZYVA, the most frequently reported chemistry laboratory abnormalities were elevated creatinine (69%), decreased creatinine clearance (43%), hypophosphatemia (25%), AST/SGOT increased (24%) and ALT/SGPT increased (21%). The most frequently reported chemistry Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities during the monotherapy period were hypophosphatemia (5%) and hyponatremia (3%). Infusion Reactions: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia The incidence of infusion reactions was 65% with the first infusion of GAZYVA. The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions was 20% with 7% of patients discontinuing therapy. The incidence of reactions with subsequent infusions was 3% with the second 1000 mg and < 1% thereafter. No Grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions were reported beyond the first 1000 mg infused. Of the first 53 patients receiving GAZYVA on the trial, 47 (89%) experienced an infusion reaction. After this experience, study protocol modifications were made to require pre-medication with a corticosteroid, antihistamine, and acetaminophen. The first dose was also divided into two infusions (100 mg on day 1 and 900 mg on day 2). For the 140 patients for whom these mitigation measures were implemented, 74 patients (53%) experienced a reaction with the first 1000 mg (64 patients on day 1, 3 patients on day 2, and 7 patients on both days) and < 3% thereafter [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Overall, 69% of patients experienced an infusion reaction (all grades) during treatment with GAZYVA in combination with bendamustine. The incidence of Grade 3-4 infusion reactions was 11%. In Cycle 1, the incidence of infusion reactions (all grades) was 55% in patients receiving GAZYVA in combination with bendamustine with Grade 3-4 infusion reactions reported in 9%. In patients receiving GAZYVA in combination with bendamustine, the incidence of infusion reactions was highest on Day 1 (38%), and gradually decreased on Days 2, 8 and 15 (25%, 7% and 4%, respectively). During Cycle 2, the incidence of infusion reactions was 24% in patients receiving GAZYVA in combination with bendamustine and decreased with subsequent cycles. During GAZYVA monotherapy, infusion reactions (all grades) were observed in 8% of patients. No grade 3-4 infusion reactions were reported during GAZYVA monotherapy. Overall, 2% of patients experienced an infusion reaction leading to discontinuation of GAZYVA. Neutropenia: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia The incidence of neutropenia reported as an adverse reaction was 38% in the GAZYVA treated arm and 32% in the rituximab treated arm, with the incidence of serious adverse events being 1% and < 1%, respectively (Table 4). Cases of late-onset neutropenia (occurring 28 days after completion of treatment or later) were 16% in the GAZYVA treated arm and 12% in the rituximab treated arm. Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma The incidence of neutropenia was higher in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine arm (38%) compared to the arm treated with bendamustine alone (32%). Cases of prolonged neutropenia (3%) and late onset neutropenia (7%) were also reported in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine arm. Infection: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia The incidence of infections was similar between GAZYVA and rituximab treated arms. Thirty-eight percent of patients in the GAZYVA treated arm and 37% in the rituximab treated arm experienced an infection, with Grade 3-4 rates being 11% and 13%, respectively. Fatal events were reported in 1% of patients in both arms. Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma The incidence of infection was 66% in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine arm and 56% in the bendamustine arm, with Grade 3-4 events reported in 16% and 14%, respectively. Fatal events were reported in 3% of patients in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine arm and 4% in the bendamustine arm. Thrombocytopenia: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia The overall incidence of thrombocytopenia reported as an adverse reaction was higher in the GAZYVA treated arm (14%) compared to the rituximab treated arm (7%), with the incidence of Grade 3-4 events being 10% and 3%, respectively (Table 4). The difference in incidences between the treatment arms is driven by events occurring during the first cycle. The incidence of thrombocytopenia (all grades) in the first cycle were 11% in the GAZYVA and 3% in the rituximab treated arms, with Grade 3-4 rates being 8% and 2%, respectively. Four percent of patients in the GAZYVA treated arm experienced acute thrombocytopenia (occurring within 24 hours after the GAZYVA infusion). The overall incidence of hemorrhagic events and the number of fatal hemorrhagic events were similar between the treatment arms, with 3 in the rituximab and 4 in the GAZYVA treated arms. However, all fatal hemorrhagic events in patients treated with GAZYVA occurred in Cycle 1. Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma The incidence of thrombocytopenia was lower in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine arm (15%) compared to the arm treated with bendamustine alone (24%). The incidence of hemorrhagic events in GAZYVA plus bendamustine treated patients compared to bendamustine alone was 11% and 10%, respectively. Grade 3-4 hemorrhagic events were similar in both treatment arms (5% in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine arm and 3% in the bendamustine arm). Tumor Lysis Syndrome: The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 tumor lysis syndrome in patients with CLL was 2% in the GAZYVA treated arm, and in patients with iNHL was 0.5% in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine treated arm. Musculoskeletal Disorders: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Adverse events related to musculoskeletal disorders (all events from the System Organ Class), including pain, have been reported in the GAZYVA treated arm with higher incidence than in the rituximab treated arm (18% vs. 15%). Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Adverse events related to musculoskeletal disorders (all events from the System Organ Class), including pain, have been reported in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine treated arm with higher incidence than in the bendamustine alone arm (41% vs. 29%). Liver Enzyme Elevations: Hepatic enzyme elevations have occurred in CLL patients who received GAZYVA in clinical trials and had normal baseline hepatic enzyme levels (AST, ALT, and ALP). The events occurred most frequently within 24-48 hours of the first infusion. In some patients, elevations in liver enzymes were observed concurrently with infusion reactions or tumor lysis syndrome. In the pivotal CLL study, there was no clinically meaningful difference in overall hepatotoxicity adverse events between all arms (4% of patients in the GAZYVA treated arm). Medications commonly used to prevent infusion reactions (e.g., acetaminophen) may also be implicated in these events. Monitor liver function tests during treatment, especially during the first cycle. Consider treatment interruption or discontinuation for hepatotoxicity. Gastro-Intestinal Perforation: Cases of gastro-intestinal perforation have been reported in patients receiving GAZYVA, mainly in NHL. 6.2 Immunogenicity Serum samples from patients with previously untreated CLL were tested during and after treatment for antibodies to GAZYVA. Of the GAZYVA treated patients with CLL, 7% (18/271) tested positive for anti-GAZYVA antibodies at one or more time points. In the pivotal iNHL trial, two out of 194 (1%) patients in the GAZYVA plus bendamustine arm tested positive for anti-GAZYVA antibodies at baseline and experienced infusion reactions. No patients with iNHL developed anti-GAZYVA antibodies during or following GAZYVA treatment. Neutralizing activity of anti-GAZYVA antibodies has not been assessed. Immunogenicity data are highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the test methods used. Additionally, the observed incidence of a positive result in a test method may be influenced by several factors, including sample handling, timing of sample collection, drug interference, concomitant medication, and the underlying disease. Therefore, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to GAZYVA with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading. Clinical significance of anti-GAZYVA antibodies is not known. 6.3 Additional Clinical Trial Experience Worsening of Pre-existing Cardiac Conditions: Fatal cardiac events have been reported in patients treated with GAZYVA."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Infusion reactions: Premedicate patients with glucocorticoid, acetaminophen, and anti-histamine. Monitor patients closely during infusions. Interrupt or discontinue infusion for reactions. (2.2, 5.3) Tumor Lysis Syndrome: Anticipate tumor lysis syndrome; premedicate with anti-hyperuricemics and adequate hydration especially for patients with high tumor burden, high circulating lymphocyte count or renal impairment. Correct electrolyte abnormalities, provide supportive care, and monitor renal function and fluid balance. (5.4) Neutropenia: Monitor for infection. (5.6) Thrombocytopenia: Monitor platelet counts and for bleeding. Management of hemorrhage may require blood product support. (5.7) Immunization: Do not administer live virus vaccines prior to or during GAZYVA treatment. (5.8) 5.1 Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation, in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and death, can occur in patients treated with anti-CD20 antibodies such as GAZYVA. HBV reactivation has been reported in patients who are hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive and also in patients who are HBsAg negative but are hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc) positive. Reactivation has also occurred in patients who appear to have resolved hepatitis B infection (i.e., HBsAg negative, anti-HBc positive, and hepatitis B surface antibody [anti-HBs] positive). HBV reactivation is defined as an abrupt increase in HBV replication manifesting as a rapid increase in serum HBV DNA level or detection of HBsAg in a person who was previously HBsAg negative and anti-HBc positive. Reactivation of HBV replication is often followed by hepatitis, i.e., increase in transaminase levels and, in severe cases, increase in bilirubin levels, liver failure, and death. Screen all patients for HBV infection by measuring HBsAg and anti-HBc before initiating treatment with GAZYVA. For patients who show evidence of hepatitis B infection (HBsAg positive [regardless of antibody status] or HBsAg negative but anti-HBc positive), consult physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for HBV antiviral therapy. Monitor patients with evidence of current or prior HBV infection for clinical and laboratory signs of hepatitis or HBV reactivation during and for several months following treatment with GAZYVA. HBV reactivation has been reported for other CD20-directed cytolytic antibodies following completion of therapy. In patients who develop reactivation of HBV while receiving GAZYVA, immediately discontinue GAZYVA and any concomitant chemotherapy and institute appropriate treatment. Resumption of GAZYVA in patients whose HBV reactivation resolves should be discussed with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B. Insufficient data exist regarding the safety of resuming GAZYVA in patients who develop HBV reactivation. 5.2 Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy JC virus infection resulting in progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which can be fatal, was observed in patients treated with GAZYVA. Consider the diagnosis of PML in any patient presenting with new onset or changes to preexisting neurologic manifestations. Evaluation of PML includes, but is not limited to, consultation with a neurologist, brain MRI, and lumbar puncture. Discontinue GAZYVA therapy and consider discontinuation or reduction of any concomitant chemotherapy or immunosuppressive therapy in patients who develop PML. 5.3 Infusion Reactions GAZYVA can cause severe and life-threatening infusion reactions. Sixty-five percent of patients with CLL experienced a reaction to the first 1000 mg infused of GAZYVA. Thirty-eight percent of iNHL patients experienced a reaction on Day 1 of GAZYVA infusion. Infusion reactions can also occur with subsequent infusions. Symptoms may include hypotension, tachycardia, dyspnea, and respiratory symptoms (e.g., bronchospasm, larynx and throat irritation, wheezing, laryngeal edema). Most frequently reported symptoms include nausea, fatigue, dizziness, vomiting, diarrhea, hypertension, flushing, headache, pyrexia, and chills [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Premedicate patients with acetaminophen, antihistamine, and a glucocorticoid. Institute medical management (e.g., glucocorticoids, epinephrine, bronchodilators, and/or oxygen) for infusion reactions as needed. Closely monitor patients during the entire infusion. Infusion reactions within 24 hours of receiving GAZYVA have occurred [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. For patients with any Grade 4 infusion reactions, including but not limited to anaphylaxis, acute life-threatening respiratory symptoms, or other life-threatening infusion reaction: Stop the GAZYVA infusion. Permanently discontinue GAZYVA therapy. For patients with Grade 1, 2, or 3 infusion reactions: Interrupt GAZYVA for Grade 3 reactions until resolution of symptoms. Interrupt or reduce the rate of the infusion for Grade 1 or 2 reactions and manage symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. For patients with preexisting cardiac or pulmonary conditions, monitor more frequently throughout the infusion and the post-infusion period since they may be at greater risk of experiencing more severe reactions. Hypotension may occur as part of the GAZYVA infusion reaction. Consider withholding antihypertensive treatments for 12 hours prior to, during each GAZYVA infusion, and for the first hour after administration until blood pressure is stable. For patients at increased risk of hypertensive crisis, consider the benefits versus the risks of withholding their antihypertensive medication as is suggested here. 5.4 Tumor Lysis Syndrome Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS), including fatal cases, has been reported in patients receiving GAZYVA. Patients with high tumor burden, high circulating lymphocyte count (> 25 × 109/L) or renal impairment are at greater risk for TLS and should receive appropriate tumor lysis prophylaxis with anti-hyperuricemics (e.g., allopurinol or rasburicase) and hydration prior to the infusion of GAZYVA [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. During the initial days of GAZYVA treatment, monitor the laboratory parameters of patients considered at risk for TLS. For treatment of TLS, correct electrolyte abnormalities, monitor renal function and fluid balance, and administer supportive care, including dialysis as indicated. 5.5 Infections Serious bacterial, fungal, and new or reactivated viral infections can occur during and following GAZYVA therapy. Fatal infections have been reported with GAZYVA. Do not administer GAZYVA to patients with an active infection. Patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections may be at increased risk of infection. 5.6 Neutropenia Severe and life threatening neutropenia, including febrile neutropenia, has been reported during treatment with GAZYVA. Patients with Grade 3 to 4 neutropenia should be monitored frequently with regular laboratory tests until resolution. Anticipate, evaluate, and treat any symptoms or signs of developing infection. Consider administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSF) in patients with Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia. Neutropenia can also be of late onset (occurring more than 28 days after completion of treatment) and/or prolonged (lasting longer than 28 days). Consider dose delays in the case of Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia. Patients with severe and long lasting (>1 week) neutropenia are strongly recommended to receive antimicrobial prophylaxis until resolution of neutropenia to Grade 1 or 2. Antiviral and antifungal prophylaxis should be considered. 5.7 Thrombocytopenia Severe and life threatening thrombocytopenia has been reported during treatment with GAZYVA in combination with chlorambucil or bendamustine. Fatal hemorrhagic events during Cycle 1 have also been reported in patients with CLL treated with GAZYVA. Monitor all patients frequently for thrombocytopenia and hemorrhagic events, especially during the first cycle. In patients with Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, monitor platelet counts more frequently until resolution and consider subsequent dose delays of GAZYVA and chemotherapy or dose reductions of chemotherapy. Transfusion of blood products (i.e., platelet transfusion) may be necessary. Consider withholding concomitant medications which may increase bleeding risk (platelet inhibitors, anticoagulants), especially during the first cycle. 5.8 Immunization The safety and efficacy of immunization with live or attenuated viral vaccines during or following GAZYVA therapy have not been studied. Immunization with live virus vaccines is not recommended during treatment and until B-cell recovery."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
